2. GUJJOLAAY EEGIMAA , ITS SPEAKERS AND THEIR NEIGHBOURS
This section briefly presents the Gújjolaay Eegimaa ( Eegimaa for short ; Ethnologue code : ISO 639-3 : bqj ) , its speakers and its varieties .
We also discuss aspects of the contact situation of the Eegimaa language .
This is important , because as we will show in § 6 below , some of the Eegimaa death prevention names and child-bearing names are given to Eegimaa people from other communities .
Eegimaa is a Jóola language spoken in the Basse Casamance area of Southern Senegal by a population estimated to be between 7,000 ( Bassène , 2007 ) and 11,200 speakers ( Lewis , Simons , & Fennig , 2014 ) .
Jóola languages are classified as members of Sapir ’s ( 1971 ) BAK group of Atlantic languages of the Niger Congo language phylum .
Speakers of these languages are found in the Gambia , in the former Casamance region of Southern Senegal and in Guinea Bissau .
The map in Figure 1 , taken from Ethnologue , presents the languages of Senegal .
The arrow on the map points to the Eegimaa speaking area ( Bandial is the name used by Ethnologue for Eegimaa ) .
Eegimaa is mainly spoken in Mof-Ávvi , a former kingdom of 10 villages located to the west of Ziguinchor , the capital city of the former administrative region of Casamance in the south of Senegal .
Mof-Ávvi is a peninsula bordered by the Casamance River to the north , which separates it from the Jóola Búluf and Jóola Fogny areas , and to the east by the villages Brin and Djibonker , where the speakers of Kujireray and Baïnounk Gubëeher live .
In the south , the river known as Kamobeul Bolon separates Mof-Ávvi from the Bayot speaking area , while the west side of Mof-Ávvi coincides with the homeland of the Jóola Kaasa Húluf and Jóola Kaasa Ésuulaaluʔ .
The map in Figure 2 below , adapted from Palmeri and Gazio ( 1995 ) , shows a very approximate location of Mof-Ávvi in relation to other neighbouring speech communities .
Some of these communities will be referred to in our discussion of death prevention names in § 6 .
The Eegimaa spoken in Mof-Ávvi is known by several names given by speakers of neighbouring languages .
For example , the name Kusiilay 1 ‘ the language of Essil ’ , is the name given by speakers of Kujireray to the Eegimaa language , because Essil , of which Bajjat was a district , is the village which has a border with their village .
Endungo is the name given by Bayot speakers , but its meaning is not known .
Kúlaakiay , ‘ the language of village of Seleki / Sállagi ’ , is the name given by Jóola Kaasa speakers who are more familiar with the village of Seleki / Sállagi ’ than all other villages of Mof-Ávvi .
Finally , Banjal / Bandial ‘ the language of the village of Banjal ’ , the most popular of all those names , is the name given by the Jóola Búluf and Jóola Fogny speakers to Eegimaa people and their language , because people from the village of Banjal were the first to be in contact with them .
Figure 1 .
Map of Senegal ( courtesy of Google maps )
Figure 2 .
Map of the Eegimaa speaking area
Village names are written using their usual spelling .
The Ethnologue language codes are provided for language varieties that have them .
Language names are written following the recommendation for the transcription of national languages of Senegal , Decree 2005-981 .
Names of the villages of Mof-Ávvi are written using the Eegimaa orthography and following the pronunciation of village names by native speakers .
Jóola language varieties which are closely related to Eegimaa include Kujireray / Kuluunaay ( from the village of Brin with 76 % lexical similarity ) and Gufiñamay ( from the village of Afiniam with 74 % lexical similarity ( based on Lewis et al. , 2014 eds. ) ) .
Gútaamay ( from the village of Butam ) , Gulapaoray ( from the village Djilapaor ) and Gusiilay ( ISO 639-3 : bsl ) from the village of Thionk Essil are also other languages related to Eegimaa .
They are located north of the Casamance River in the Jóola Búluf area .
There are also small migrant Eegimaa communities in villages like Djifanghor ( east of Ziguinchor ) and in Bourofaye ( south of Ziguinchor ) , where they cohabit with speakers of Baïnounk languages .
Nowadays most Eegimaa speakers from Mof-Ávvi live outside their homeland , generally in urban areas like Ziguinchor and Dakar .
Speakers of Eegimaa use the term Gújjolaay ( meaning Jóola ) to refer to their language when they speak to each other , but Eegimaa to distinguish their Jóola variety from that of other Jóola peoples .
Eegimaa is an endangered language whose transmission to new generations has been declining significantly in the last decades .
It is important to understand the contact situation of Eegimaa , because some of the ritual names analysed in this paper come from other languages or from neighbouring communities .
These names are given either in Eegimaa or in a different language .
At least 107 killed in Mecca crane collapse
Saturday , September 12 , 2015
pilgrims at Mecca 's Grand Mosque in 2008 .
A storm yesterday caused a crane to fall into Mecca 's Grand Mosque , killing 107 or more and wounding 238 , according to Saudi Arabia 's Civil Defense Authority .
Civil Defense Authority director General Suleiman al-Amr , in remarks to al-Ikhbariya television , said " All those who were wounded and the dead have been taken to hospital . There are no casualties left at the location . "
The accident , which occurred yesterday afternoon , was caused by strong winds and heavy rain that led the crane to fall .
Photos released of the scene showed numerous bloodied bodies and various scattered debris .
The accident occurred at a time when the mosque was relatively uncrowded .
" Had it happened an hour later it would have been much worse , " Khaled Al-Maeena , editor at large at the Saudi Gazette , said .
" Had it happened five hours earlier or four hours earlier , I think the death toll would have been more than a thousand . "
The crane accident comes just ten days before the beginning of the Hajj , the annual pilgrimage to Mecca , Islam 's holiest site .
As undergoing a pilgrimage to Mecca is a mandatory religious duty for all Muslims who physically and financially can , millions of pilgrims arrive in Mecca each year for the Hajj .
Construction was underway at the mosque in order to enlarge the mosque and improve crowd control , which has been a recurring problem during Mecca 's pilgrimages .
Keep your eyes peeled for cosmic debris : Andrew Westphal about Stardust @ home
Sunday , May 28 , 2006
Stardust is a NASA space capsule that collected samples from comet 81P/Wild ( also known as " Wild 2 ) in deep space and landed back on Earth on January 15 , 2006 .
It was decided that a collaborative online review process would be used to " discover " the microscopically small samples the capsule collected .
The project is called Stardust @ home .
Unlike distributed computing projects like SETI @ home , Stardust @ home relies entirely on human intelligence .
Andrew Westphal is the director of Stardust @ home .
Wikinews interviewed him for May 's Interview of the Month ( IOTM ) on May 18 , 2006 .
As always , the interview was conducted on IRC , with multiple people asking questions .
Some may not know exactly what Stardust or Stardust @ home is .
Can you explain more about it for us ?
Artist 's rendering of Spacecraft Stardust
Image : NASA
Stardust is a NASA Discovery mission that was launched in 1999 .
It is really two missions in one .
The primary science goal of the mission was to collect a sample from a known primitive solar-system body , a comet called Wild 2 ( pronounced " Vilt-two " — the discoverer was German , I believe ) .
This is the first US " sample return " mission since Apollo , and the first ever from beyond the moon .
This gives a little context .
By " sample return " of course I mean a mission that brings back extraterrestrial material .
I should have said above that this is the first " solid " sample return mission —
Genesis brought back a sample from the Sun almost two years ago , but Stardust is also bringing back the first solid samples from the local interstellar medium —
basically this is a sample of the Galaxy .
This is absolutely unprecedented , and we 're obviously incredibly excited .
I should mention parenthetically that there is a fantastic launch video — taken from the POV of the rocket on the JPL Stardust website — highly recommended — best I 've ever seen — all the way from the launch pad , too .
Basically interplanetary trajectory .
Absolutely great .
Is the video available to the public ?
Yes [ see below ] .
OK , I digress .
The first challenge that we have before can do any kind of analysis of these interstellar dust particles is simply to find them .
This is a big challenge because they are very small ( order of micron in size ) and are somewhere ( we do n't know where ) on a HUGE collector — at least on the scale of the particle size — about a tenth of a square meter .
So ...
We 're right now using an automated microscope that we developed several years ago for nuclear astrophysics work to scan the collector in the Cosmic Dust Lab in Building 31 at Johnson Space Center .
This is the ARES group that handles returned samples ( Moon Rocks , Genesis chips , Meteorites , and Interplanetary Dust Particles collected by U2 in the stratosphere ) .
The microscope collects stacks of digital images of the aerogel collectors in the array .
These images are sent to us — we compress them and convert them into a format appropriate for Stardust @ home .
Stardust @ home is a highly distributed project using a " Virtual Microscope " that is written in html and javascript and runs on most browsers — no downloads are required .
Using the Virtual Microscope volunteers can search over the collector for the tracks of the interstellar dust particles .
Aerogel slice removed with an ultrasonic blade , showing particle tracks .
Image : NASA
How many samples do you anticipate being found during the course of the project ?
Great question .
The short answer is that we do n't know .
The long answer is a bit more complicated .
Here 's what we know .
The Galileo and Ulysses spacecraft carried dust detectors onboard that Eberhard Gruen and his colleagues used to first detect and them measure the flux of interstellar dust particles streaming into the solar system .
( This is a kind of " wind " of interstellar dust , caused by the fact that our solar system is moving with respect to the local interstellar medium . )
Markus Landgraf has estimated the number of interstellar dust particles that should have been captured by Stardust during two periods of the " cruise " phase of the interplanetary orbit in which the spacecraft was moving with this wind .
He estimated that there should be around 45 particles , but this number is very uncertain — I would n't be surprised if it is quite different from that .
That was the long answer !
One thing that I should say ... is that like all research , the outcome of what we are doing is highly uncertain .
There is a wonderful quote attributed to Einstein — " If we knew what we were doing , it would n't be called " research " , would it ? "
How big would the samples be ?
We expect that the particles will be of order a micron in size .
( A millionth of a meter . )
When people are searching using the virtual microscope , they will be looking not for the particles , but for the tracks that the particles make , which are much larger — several microns in diameter .
Just yesterday we switched over to a new site which has a demo of the VM ( virtual microscope ) I invite you to check it out .
The tracks in the demo are from submicron carbonyl iron particles that were shot into aerogel using a particle accelerator modified to accelerate dust particles to very high speeds , to simulate the interstellar dust impacts that we 're looking for .
And that 's on the main Stardust @ home website [ see below ] ?
Yes .
Frank Messina : An Interview with the ' Mets Poet '
Wednesday , October 3 , 2007
You have received a good deal of attention recently .
Even though I m not Michael Jackson or somebody , when people come up to me and introduce themselves and say , ' Hey Frank , my name is John , ' I say , ' Hey John , my name is Frank ' and they laugh .
It 's a funny phenomenon .
What goes through your head when that happens ?
I understand it .
I 've gone to readings and concerts .
I look at it as human interaction .
Over the years I have performed in 32 countries and 40 states .
I 've been doing this professionally since I was in my twenties , and before that since I was sixteen doing little tidbit poetry readings in coffeehouses .
The band I started in 1993 , Spoken Motion , received a lot of recognition as a spoken word band born out of the New York spoken word scene .
I worked with some great musicians and performed around the world .
I remember signing my first autograph to a kid when I was 25 years old .
As time went on , I came out with books and CDs , and I became used to that kind of thing .
To me , the ultimate feeling of success as an artist , is to move somebody enough where they thank you .
When someone comes up and says , ' Frank , thank you , your work is great . "
You have a long career in poetry , but as of late the attention you have garnered is for the Mets-inspired work .
How do you feel about having a lot of your work overshadowed by the Mets work ?
It 's ironic .
Some of the greatest poetry has been born out of failure and the depths of adversity in the human experience .
Walt Whitman , the first great American poet , wrote about the Civil War .
He went looking for his brother , George Whitman , after he a telegram telling him his brother was injured in the South .
When he started out his poems were about beating drums , and blow , bugle , blow .
Real patriotic .
Then he started to see the real horrors of war .
He was able to tap into the human condition and the situation at that time .
Eventually when he found his brother he had resolution .
I experienced that kind of adversity during 9/11 being a civilian volunteer .
I loaded ferry boats in Jersey City across the river to deliver goods to Ground Zero .
I turned to Whitman to find some understanding of what is happening in the world right now .
When I wrote my 9/11-related poems , that was true adversity .
I realize baseball is just a game .
Can you recite a stanza that expresses how you feel right now ?
This was a piece that the Times only quoted one stanza , but it 's about preparation for a battle , and being prepared to either rise to the occasion , or go down :
Do you know what it 's like to be chased by the Ghost of Failure while staring through Victory 's door ?
Of course you do , you 're a Mets fan caught in a do-or-die moment in late September at Shea
As one that s battled hard through many a broken dream Let me say , " in order to rise to the occasion you must be willing to go down with the ship " ,
Have no fear , no hesitation , for Winning shall be it's reward !
Do n't let them get in your head !
you 've kept it up this long
You 're a Mets fan in late September and you ll fight til the glorious end
Cheer the team today ; ( your boys in orange and blue ) Let them hear you shout as they fight for what 's mightily due
( copyright Frank Messina ; reprinted with permission ) "
Sports fans are n't known as patrons of poetry .
Have you had interaction with " new readers ' through your Mets work ?
This one person who I never met took a picture of me and sent it to me in an e-mail .
The e-mail said , ' Frank , I have never bothered you during the game , but I just wanted to say thank you for your work and thank you for making some sense of the successes and failures and I wish you much success with your work . '
Last year in my section at the stadium I had a banner that read We Know ' .
That 's all it said .
Then earlier this year these shirts started to come out that said , " Poet says We Know " .
It was amazing .
We did n't use the banner this year , though , because we did n't know .
The team was n't so far ahead that we knew .
Last year we just knew we were going to the playoffs ; we knew we were going post-season .
This year we were n't sure .
We were walking on eggshells .
There was a woman , a season ticket holder and a die hard fan .
She was staggered by the loss last year to the Cardinals .
Last year she came up to me during one of the games late in the season ; she was so happy we were going to the post season .
By that point we had clinched it .
She handed me a shirt she bought at the stadium and she gave me a big hug .
With tears in her eyes she said , " Thank you , Mets Poet , thank you . "
It 's cool ... it 's like another family .
Moments like that must make you realize you have touched people who are n't normally touched by poetry .
It 's opened up a new fan base , so to speak .
For the last year SNY has broadcast footage of me with my poems , so quite a few fans known about the " Mets Poet ' .
I have never called myself that , by the way .
The back of my jersey says " The Poet ' because growing up that was my nickname .
My brother was a runner and they used to call him The Birdman -- Birdie -- and they called me The Poet .
It was a natural thing , but I never coined myself as ' The Mets Poet . '
Tulsa
Tulsa is in the Green Country region of Oklahoma .
It is also called “ T-town ” by the locals and has been called the " Oil Capital of the World " .
The city had about 391,000 people and the metro area had about 937,000 people as of 2010 from the US Census Bureau .
The Tulsa Bartlesville Combined area had 988,000 in the 2010 census .
Understand
Tulsa lies in northeastern Oklahoma , at the convergence of the Great Plains and the Ozark Plateau , and receives an average of 40 inches of precipitation each year , both of which account for its abundant beautiful rolling green terrain .
As a result , Tulsa breaks the Oklahoma stereotype of being nothing but a flat , arid dust bowl .
Summers can be very warm and with the cold wind across the plains it can get very cold in the winter , but it does not last long .
The winters are considered to be very mild .
There is not much snow , just a few inches each year , typically , although in 2007 and again in 2008 there were rather large " ice storms " .
Tulsa has over 225 days of sunshine annually .
In Tulsa you will find old west charm as well as a cosmopolitan atmosphere .
You will find the people of Tulsa love their city and they have that southern charm , so they are willing to help you find your way around .
Tulsa has one of the largest concentrations of Art Deco in the nation , having been a booming city during the 1920s when the architecture was first built by rich oil barons who built stately mansions and turned the Downtown area into a treasure trove of art .
Get in
By plane
Tulsa International Airport ( IATA : TUL ) in the northern part of Tulsa .
It has major airlines with direct flights to major cities in the U.S.
It is a small but nice airport with sofas and chairs all around and a very laid-back feel .
The car rental area and parking is well integrated .
The airport offers free short term parking ( first half-hour free ) .
Richard L. Jones , Jr. Airport ( IATA : RVS ) ( often called the " Riverside Airport " ) is south of downtown and is a general aviation airport .
By train
There is no passenger train service to Tulsa .
By car
Most Tulsans drive almost everywhere , although bus , bike , and pedestrian routes are starting to catch on .
From the North / Kansas - US-75 South from Bartlesville , OK , or US-169 South from Coffeyville , KS .
From the Northeast / Missouri - I-44 West , aka the " Will Rogers Turnpike . "
The world 's former largest McDonalds spans the roadway near Vinita , OK .
From the East / Arkansas - US-412 West , aka the " Cherokee Turnpike . "
From the Southeast / Arkansas - The " Muskogee Turnpike . "
From the South - US-75 from Okmulgee , OK , aka the " Okmulgee Beeline . "
From the Southwest / Oklahoma City - I-44 East , aka the " Turner Turnpike . "
From the West - US-412 East , aka the " Cimarron Turnpike . "
For the slow scenic route from Northeast or Southwest come in on old Route 66 .
By bus
Greyhound Bus Lines +1918584-4428 , 317 S Detroit Ave. ( downtown ) .
Get around
Thanks to urban planning , the major city streets are placed in a grid layout .
Almost all major intersections are one mile from each other , and exactly in a straight line .
That makes it much easier to find places than in cities where streets go every which way .
The major exception is downtown , which is slanted at almost a 45 degree angle to the rest of the grid .
By car
Several freeways and bypasses can be used to easily get around the Tulsa Metro area : I-244 , I-44 , US 169 ( Mingo Valley Expressway , aka " Pearl Harbor Memorial Expressway " ) , US 75 , Hwy 51 ( Broken Arrow Expressway , The " B.A. " ) , Creek Turnpike .
The streets and avenues are planned on a 1 mile by 1 mile grid system , with the main arterials running on each mile .
In the core of the city , named avenues run north / south and are named after US cities , generally in repeating alphabetical order ( for example , Winston - Yale - Allegheny - Braden ) .
In the mid-town area the names are taken from colleges and college towns .
North / South is divided by Admiral Blvd .
Name streets East of Main are cities east of the Mississippi River , vice versa for name streets west of Main .
In the parts of the city farther from downtown , north-south streets are numbered .
It is important to recognize that the specific format of the north-south numbered street names is North / South 145th East / West Avenue .
Numbered streets run East / West with Main Street and the Arkansas River as the dividing line .
Watch out for Place , Street , Avenue designation , e.g. 47th Place , 47th Street , or Florence Place , Florence Avenue .
It is important to recognize that the specific format of the east-west numbered street names is West / East 71st Street North / South .
In some parts of the city , numbered streets intersect , so the distinction is important .
Although rare , one east-west numbered street may even intersect with a street of the same number running north-south .
Downtown streets were originally platted parallel to the Frisco railroad tracks .
When Tulsa expanded beyond the bounds of its original plat , the expanded areas were platted in alignment with the points of the compass .
Thus the " twisted " area down-town represents the original extent of Tulsa ca 1907 .
By bus
Tulsa Transit provides bus service for the Tulsa Metro area .
Cities served are Tulsa , Sand Springs , Sapulpa , Jenks , and Broken Arrow .
The central station is at 319 S. Denver ( downtown ) .
They do not run that often , especially to the outer towns like Broken Arrow .
Unlike major cities in the Northeast , the city bus is not a major form of transportation in the city .
It is usually a means of travel for those who are without their own motor vehicle .
By bicycle
Tulsa has an extensive interconnected paved bike trail system .
Rivertrail follows the Arkansas River from downtown Tulsa south to the suburbs .
The Katy Trail runs west to Sand Springs .
The Osage Trail is a rails-to-trails route that begins at the OSU-Tulsa campus and travels north 15 miles to Skiatook .
The Creek Trail connects Rivertrail and continues east through Broken Arrow to the NSU-Broken Arrow campus .
Riders accustomed to flat terrain may find Tulsa 's rolling land to be a bit more challenging , particularly during the heat of summer .
If you are looking for a good workout , the Creek Turnpike Trail follows the land 's original contours .
Rivertrail is probably be best choice for the rider seeking an easy route .
Four bike loan depots , located along Rivertrail , allow riders to borrow a bike for free for up to twenty-four hours .
Tulsa has an active bicycling community .
How to Flirt Through Instant Messaging
So you want to flirt with a guy or gal on MSN , AIM , Facebook Chat , or any other instant messaging service and you do n't want to look like a creep ?
Congratulations — by seeking help , you 've already demonstrated more self-awareness than the vast majority of online flirts .
See Step 1 below to start flirting smartly and respectfully .
Part 1 of 2 : Flirting Dos
Start the conversation casually .
As in the real world , the first step to flirting is to get over your cold feet and jump right in !
Text the other person a brief message asking them about their day , asking them a specific question about work or school , or simply saying " Hi ! " .
The hardest part of flirting is to break through your initial reluctance , so if you 're having a hard time taking the plunge , just remind yourself that no matter how badly it goes , it 'll be less stressful than an equivalent real-world encounter .
There 's no reason to be nervous when it comes to IM flirting —
if the person you want to talk to does n't want to talk to you , s/he always has the option of simply not responding to your message , as , from your point of view , this is indistinguishable from him or her simply being away from the computer .
This being said , if you barely know someone , it can be a good idea to have an excuse for starting a conversation to avoid awkwardness .
Asking for help with a work or school-related problem is almost always a good bet , as is asking a question about something striking about the person .
For instance , if the person has a band-related username , you might say : " Hey , cool name . Did you see those guys when they last came to town ? "
Start small talk .
After your initial greeting and exchange of pleasantries , you 'll probably want to ask how the person 's doing ( just like you might in the real world ) .
Ask him or her about work or school , his / her interests , or any recent trips , for instance .
Rather than asking a question , you can also simply offer your comments on these things .
When s/he responds , add your own comments or ask follow-up questions and proceed from there !
Do n't pry into his or her personal life — keep things light , fun , and focused on worry-free subjects .
Do n't dwell too long on small talk .
A minute or two is great for breaking the ice , but much more can get boring fast .
For example , after we 've opened up by asking about this person 's interest in the band in his / her username , it 's logical and reasonable to ask about this person 's musical likes and dislikes .
You can even offer your own opinions and suggestions .
For instance , you might say something like : " If you like those guys , you might want to check out this band called Manic Albatross - they 're like the Beatles , only darker . What sorts of other bands do you like ? "
Joke .
Everyone likes a good sense of humor .
In the immortal words of Marilyn Monroe , " If you can make a woman laugh , you can make her do anything " ( do n't worry , ladies — the same is true for men ! )
Try to be playful and even slightly sarcastic as you respond to the statements of the person you 're talking to .
For instance , if you 're asked what you 're up to , rather than saying , " looking for people to hit on on Facebook " you might find that it 's a better idea to give a sarcastic answer like " writing the great American novel " or " drowning my sorrows " .
These responses have the added benefit of being natural launching points for conversations about your hobbies , like the writing you 're doing on the side and the great bourbon you tasted the other day .
In our example conversation , you might work a joke or two into your music-related small talk .
For instance , you might say something like , " I do n't know why every song on the radio nowadays has a Texas Flynn feature . Does he even have time to record between rehab stints ? "
Part 2 of 2 : Flirting Don'ts
Do n't be too self-deprecating .
Simply put , confidence is sexy .
This is more true for real-life situations than it is online , but this mantra has some truth in the world of IM flirting as well .
For instance , you 'll want to avoid making lots of jokes at your own expense .
Just one is plenty — it should n't be a recurring theme throughout your conversation .
Doing this too often can quickly turn an otherwise flirtatious conversation into one in which you appear needy and self-loathing .
On the other hand , this is n't to say that you should necessarily make jokes at other people 's expense , as this can make you seem mean and petty .
Any sort of pointed or caustic remarks about yourself or someone else do n't have a place in flirtatious conversations .
Do n't be too sappy .
People like flirting to be fun .
For most people , receiving compliments is only fun up to a point — getting more than one or two can make someone feel embarrassed and self-conscious .
It can also make him or her question your motives , leading the person to believe that you may be trying to get something out of him or her .
Besides , the wooing power of flowery , gushing compliments is diminished ( to say the least ) when the compliments are displayed in a tiny box at the bottom of the screen alongside cartoon smiley faces .
Instead of relying too heavily on compliments , instead , focus on having an engaging , genuine conversation .
Follow the mantra " show , do n't tell . "
In other words , show that you 're attracted to this person by giving him or her a great conversation , not by stating it outright .
Final days
Siméon Poisson reviewed Galois ' paper on equation theory and declared it " incomprehensible " .
Galois returned to mathematics after his expulsion from the École Normale , although he continued to spend time in political activities .
After his expulsion became official in January 1831 , he attempted to start a private class in advanced algebra which attracted some interest , but this waned , as it seemed that his political activism had priority . [ 4 ] [ 7 ]
Siméon Poisson asked him to submit his work on the theory of equations , which he did on 17 January 1831 .
Around 4 July 1831 , Poisson declared Galois ' work " incomprehensible " , declaring that " [ Galois ' ] argument is neither sufficiently clear nor sufficiently developed to allow us to judge its rigor " ; however , the rejection report ends on an encouraging note : " We would then suggest that the author should publish the whole of his work in order to form a definitive opinion . " [ 16 ]
While Poisson 's report was made before Galois ' July 14 arrest , it took until October to reach Galois in prison .
It is unsurprising , in the light of his character and situation at the time , that Galois reacted violently to the rejection letter , and decided to abandon publishing his papers through the Academy and instead publish them privately through his friend Auguste Chevalier .
Apparently , however , Galois did not ignore Poisson 's advice , as he began collecting all his mathematical manuscripts while still in prison , and continued polishing his ideas until his release on 29 April 1832 , [ 12 ] after which he was somehow talked into a duel . [ 8 ]
Galois ' fatal duel took place on 30 May . [ 17 ]
The true motives behind the duel are obscure .
There has been much speculation as to the reasons behind it .
What is known is that five days before his death , he wrote a letter to Chevalier which clearly alludes to a broken love affair . [ 7 ]
Some archival investigation on the original letters suggests that the woman of romantic interest was a Mademoiselle Stéphanie-Félicie Poterin du Motel , [ 18 ] the daughter of the physician at the hostel where Galois stayed during the last months of his life .
Fragments of letters from her , copied by Galois himself ( with many portions , such as her name , either obliterated or deliberately omitted ) , are available . [ 19 ]
The letters hint that Mlle. du Motel had confided some of her troubles to Galois , and this might have prompted him to provoke the duel himself on her behalf .
This conjecture is also supported by other letters Galois later wrote to his friends the night before he died .
Galois ' cousin , Gabriel Demante , when asked if he knew the cause of the duel , mentioned that Galois " found himself in the presence of a supposed uncle and a supposed fiancé , each of whom provoked the duel . "
Galois himself famously exclaimed : " I am the victim of an infamous coquette and her two dupes . " [ 12 ]
Much more detailed speculation based on these scant historical details has been interpolated by many of Galois ' biographers ( most notably by Eric Temple Bell in Men of Mathematics ) , such as the frequently repeated speculation that the entire incident was stage-managed by the police and royalist factions to eliminate a political enemy . [ 14 ]
As to his opponent in the duel , Alexandre Dumas names Pescheux d'Herbinville , [ 13 ] who was actually one of the nineteen artillery officers whose acquittal was celebrated at the banquet that occasioned Galois ' first arrest . [ 20 ]
However , Dumas is alone in this assertion , and if he were correct it is unclear why d'Herbinville would have been involved .
It has been speculated that he might have been du Motel 's " supposed fiancé " at the time ( she ultimately married someone else ) , but no clear evidence has been found supporting this conjecture .
On the other hand , extant newspaper clippings from only a few days after the duel give a description of his opponent ( identified by the initials " L. D. " ) that appear to more accurately apply to one of Galois ' Republican friends , most probably Ernest Duchatelet , who was imprisoned with Galois on the same charges . [ 21 ]
Given the conflicting information available , the true identity of his killer may well be lost to history .
Whatever the reasons behind the duel , Galois was so convinced of his impending death that he stayed up all night writing letters to his Republican friends and composing what would become his mathematical testament , the famous letter to Auguste Chevalier outlining his ideas , and three attached manuscripts . [ 22 ]
Mathematician Hermann Weyl said of this testament , " This letter , if judged by the novelty and profundity of ideas it contains , is perhaps the most substantial piece of writing in the whole literature of mankind . "
However , the legend of Galois pouring his mathematical thoughts onto paper the night before he died seems to have been exaggerated . [ 7 ]
In these final papers , he outlined the rough edges of some work he had been doing in analysis and annotated a copy of the manuscript submitted to the Academy and other papers .
The Galois memorial in the cemetery of Bourg-la-Reine .
Évariste Galois was buried in a common grave and the exact location is still unknown .
Early in the morning of 30 May 1832 , he was shot in the abdomen , [ 17 ] abandoned by his opponents and seconds , and was found by a passing farmer .
He died the following morning [ 17 ] at ten o'clock in the Hôpital Cochin ( probably of peritonitis ) , after refusing the offices of a priest .
His funeral ended in riots . [ 17 ]
There were plans to initiate an uprising during his funeral , but during the same time frame the leaders heard of General Jean Maximilien Lamarque 's death , and the rising was postponed without any uprising occurring until 5 June .
Only Galois ' younger brother was notified of the events prior to Galois ' death . [ 23 ]
He was 20 years old .
His last words to his younger brother Alfred were :
“ Ne pleure pas , Alfred !
J' ai besoin de tout mon courage pour mourir à vingt ans ! ”
( Do n't cry , Alfred !
I need all my courage to die at twenty ! )
On 2 June , Évariste Galois was buried in a common grave of the Montparnasse Cemetery whose exact location is unknown . [ 17 ] [ 15 ]
In the cemetery of his native town – Bourg-la-Reine – a cenotaph in his honour was erected beside the graves of his relatives . [ 24 ]
Friday , January 3 , 2014
Preston , Victoria , Australia
On Saturday , Wikinews interviewed Tina McKenzie , a former member of the Australia women 's national wheelchair basketball team , known as the Gliders .
McKenzie , a silver and bronze Paralympic medalist in wheelchair basketball , retired from the game after the 2012 Summer Paralympics in London .
Wikinews caught up with her in a cafe in the leafy Melbourne suburb of Preston .
[ The Spitfire Tournament in Canada ] was a really good tournament actually .
It was a tournament that I wish we 'd actually gone back to more often .
Who plays in that one ?
It 's quite a large Canadian tournament , and so we went as the Gliders team .
So we were trying to get as many international games as possible .
Cause that 's one of our problems really , to compete .
It costs us so much money to for us to travel overseas and to compete internationally .
And so we can compete against each other all the time within Australia but we really need to be able to ...
It 's not the same .
No , it 's really not , so it 's really important to be able to get as a many international trips throughout the year to continue our improvement .
Also see where all the other teams are at as well .
But yes , Spitfire was good .
We took quite a few new girls over there back then in 2005 , leading into the World Cup in the Netherlands .
Was that the one where you were the captain of the team , in 2005 ?
Or was that a later one ?
No , I captained in 2010 .
So 2009 , 2010 World Cup .
And then I had a bit of some time off in 2011 .
The Gliders have never won the World Championship .
We always seem to have just a little bit of a chill out at the World Cup .
I do n't know why .
It 's really strange occurrence , over the years .
2002 World Cup , we won bronze .
Then in 2006 we ended up fourth .
It was one of the worst World Cups we 've played actually .
And then in 2010 we just ... I do n't know what happened .
We just did n't play as well as we thought we would .
Came fourth .
But you know what ?
Fired us up for the actual Paralympics .
So the World Cup is ... it 's good to be able to do well at the World Cup , to be placed , but it also means that you get a really good opportunity to know where you 're at in that two year gap between the Paralympics .
So you can come back home and revisit what you need to do and , you know , where the team 's at .
And all that sort of stuff .
Unfortunately , they are talking about moving it so it will be on the year before the Paralympics .
Oh really .
The competition from the [ FIFA ] World Cup and all .
Right .
Well , that would be sad .
Tina McKenzie . Image : Australian Paralympic Committee .
Isfahan
Isfahan ( Persian : اصفهان , also known as Esfahan ) is a city in central Iran , south of Tehran and is the capital of Isfahan Province .
The Persians call it " Nesf-e-Jahan " , meaning " Half The World " .
Due to its beautiful hand-painted tiling and magnificent public square , it is considered to be one of the most beautiful cities in the world .
An ancient town and capital of Persia from 1598 to 1722 , it was long noted for its fine carpets and silver filigree .
Today , textile and steel mills take their place .
Its architecture , tree-lined boulevards and relaxed pace make it one of the highlights of Iran .
Understand
The city is 430 km south of Tehran at the foothills of the Zagros mountain range .
The city enjoys a temperate climate and regular seasons .
Isfahan is located on the main north-south and east-west routes crossing Iran .
The city has an Armenian Quarter called Jolfa ( originally called New Julfa ) established by Shah Abbas I in the 1600s after he destroyed the prosperous Armenian town of Julfa in Armenia and forced all of the Armenians to move to Persia , mostly to Isfahan .
They were allocated land and rebuilt a prosperous community that was a key part of an Armenian trade network extending from Singapore and India to Venice and Amsterdam .
Today the quarter still has many Armenian Churches , an Armenian school , shops and Armenian residents .
Get in
By plane
Isfahan International Airport or Isfahan Shahid Beheshti ( IATA : IFN ) was a military air base before the revolution .
There are daily flights to Tehran and Mashhad in Iran .
There are also flights to Damascus , Dubai , Kuwait and Istanbul .
From the Airport you can take cab for c. IRR 200,000 to the city centre .
Since most people are going there anyway , you can always ask people to share taxi .
See
Squares and streets
Naqsh-e Jahan Square
1 Naqsh-e Jahan Square .
Also known as shah square or imam square - 1602 ( Meidan Emam ) .
The square contains two mosques , a palace , and the bazaar .
The square is the largest historical public square in the world after Tiananmen Square in Beijing and it is a UNESCO World Heritage Site .
The square is surrounded by buildings from the Safavid era .
This a very popular place for locals to picnic on Friday and holiday evenings .
2 Chaharbagh Boulevard .
1596 , dating from the Saffavid era , the avenue is the most historically famous in all of Persia .
Meydan Kohne .
Shahshahan Square .
Mosques
Shah Mosque
Sheikh Lotfollah Mosque , interior of the dome
The stunning mosques of Isfahan are among the most beautiful and interesting in the world .
3 Imam Mosque ( called Shah Mosque before the revolution ) , Naqsh-e Jahan Square , south side .
Built during the Safavid period , it is an excellent example of Islamic architecture of Iran , and regarded as one of the masterpieces of Persian Architecture .
It is registered as a UNESCO World Heritage Site .
Its splendour is mainly due to the beauty of its seven-colour mosaic tiles and calligraphic inscriptions .
4 Sheikh Lotf Allah Mosque , Naqsh-e Jahan Square , east side .
One of the architectural masterpieces of Safavid Iranian architecture , this mosque is considered to be the most beautiful in Iran .
Built in 1602 by Shah Abbas I.= and designed by his chief architect , Sheikh Bahai .
The mosque was designed to be a private mosque for the royal family and therefore it does not have any minarets .
There is a tunnel from the mosque to the Royal Palace , across the square .
5 Masjed-e Jāmé of Isfahan , north of Naqsh-e Jahan Square in the old quarter .
Started in AD 842 , this is the first Islamic building to adopt the four-courtyard layout of Sassanid palaces .
6 Hakim Mosque , Hakim ( north of Naqsh-e Jahan in the old quarter ) .
One of the oldest mosques in Isfahan .
Built by Shah Abbas II between 1656 and 1662 .
Located on the site of a 10th century mosque .
The portal was covered in mud until it was discovered in 1956 .
Palaces
Ali Qapu Palace
Chehel Sotoun
7 Ālī Qāpū ( The Royal Palace ) .
Early 17th Century .
It is forty-eight meters high and there are seven floors , each accessible by a difficult spiral staircase .
In the sixth floor music room , deep circular niches are found in the walls , having not only aesthetic value , but also acoustic .
It is rich in naturalistic wall paintings by Reza Abbassi , the court painter of Shah Abbas I , and his pupils .
There are floral , animal and bird motifs .
8 Hasht Behesht ( The Palace of Eight Paradises ) .
1669 , reportedly built for residence purposes of the king 's harem .
Set within lush gardens which are free to roam if you do n't want to go inside the building .
9 Chehel Sotoun ( The Palace of Forty Columns ) .
1647 : It is called Palace of forty columns , as there are many columns , and in Iranian , 40 means many .
Incidentally , there are twenty columns , and these are reflected in the pool in front , which might also account for its name .
The function of this palace was for holding religious-national ceremonies and royal festivals and for receiving royal ambassadors and guests .
It's Persian Gardens is one of nine inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List .
Contains some spectacular battle murals .
Everyone ’s just watching the weird retarded girl except this one chubby guy who ’s trying to get her to put down the lights but who ’s afraid to touch her .
“ Not supposed to touch those , ” he says .
“ Where ’s your mom ?
Is your mom here ? ”
“ Sorry ! ” I say .
The chubby guy frowns at me .
“ Cara , ” I say .
“ No hands . ”
Cara looks at me , looks at the lights .
I gently try to take them .
“ No ! ” she wails .
“ Pretty ! ”
“ I ’m sorry , ” I say , “ I ’m her brother .
She ’s developmentally delayed .
Cara !
Cara , no .
No hands . ”
She wails , but lets me disentangle her hands .
“ I ’m sorry , ” I say again , the concerned big brother .
“ I was just looking around and thought she was right with me , you know ?
Our mom ’s down at Dillard ’s . ”
Chubby guy kind of hovers until I get the lights away from Cara and as soon as I put them on the shelf he grabs them and starts straightening them out and draping them back over the display .
I herd Cara towards the front of the store , mouthing sorry at the front cashier .
She ’s kind of pretty .
She smiles at me .
Nice big brother with retarded sister .
Back out in the mall , Cara is wailing , which could start an asthma attack , so to distract her I say , “ You want a cookie ? ”
Mom has Cara on a diet , so of course she wants a cookie .
She perks up the way Shelby , our Shetland Sheepdog does , when you say ‘ treat . ’
I take her to the food court and buy her an M&M cookie and buy myself a Mountain Dew and then while she ’s eating her cookie , I pull the deck of cards out of my pocket and unwrap it .
We ’ve got another fifteen minutes before we have to meet my mom .
The idea is to play fish except every time you get a match you ’re supposed to do what it says .
Tie partner ’s hands with a silk scarf .
Kiss anywhere you like and see how long your partner can keep from moving or making any noise .
The one who lasts the longest gets to draw an extra card .
Tame , but pretty cool .
I ca n’t wait to show Toph and Len .
Cara has chocolate smeared on her mouth , but she lets me wipe her face off .
“ You ready to go back to see Mom ? ” I say .
When we pass Spencer ’s again , she stops .
“ Uhhh , ” she says , pointing to the store .
Mom always tries to get her to say what she wants , but I know what she wants and I do n’t want to fight with her .
“ No , ” I say .
“ Let ’s go see Mom . ”
Cara ’s face crumples up and she hunches her thick shoulders .
“ Uhhh , ” she says , mad .
“ It ’s okay , ” I say .
“ Come on . ”
She swings at me .
I grab her hand and pull her behind me .
She tries to sit down , but I just keep on tugging and she follows me , gulping and wailing .
“ What did you do ? ” my mom says when she sees us .
My mom had to buy stuff , like gym shorts for me and underwear for herself , so I told her that I ’d take Cara with me while she bought her stuff .
She ’s holding a Dillard ’s bag .
“ She wanted to go in Spencer ’s , ” I say .
“ We went in but she kept grabbing stuff and I had to take her out and now she ’s upset . ”
“ Robert , ” my mom says , irritated .
She crouches down .
“ Ah , Cara mia , do n’t cry . ”
We trail out of the store , Cara holding Mom ’s hand and sniffling .
By the time we get to the car , though , Cara ’s wheezing .
Mom digs out Cara ’s inhaler and Cara dutifully takes a hit .
I tried it once and it was pretty dreadful .
It felt really weird , trying to get that stuff in my lungs , and it made me feel a little buzzy but it did n’t even feel good , so it ’s pretty amazing that Cara will do it .
Cara sits in her booster seat in the back of the car , wheezing all the way home , getting worse and worse , and by the time we pull in the driveway , she ’s got that white look around her mouth .
“ Robert , ” Mom says ,
“ I ’m going to have to take her to the Emergency Room . ”
“ Okay , ” I say and get out of the car .
“ You want to call your dad ? ” Mom asks .
“ I do n’t know how long we ’ll be . ”
Mom checks her watch .
It ’s three something now .
“ We may not be home in time for dinner . ”
I do n’t want to call my dad who is probably with Joyce , his girlfriend , anyway .
Joyce is always trying to be likable and it gets on my nerves after awhile — she tries way too hard .
“ I can just make a sandwich , ” I say .
“ I want you to stay at home , then , ” she says .
“ I ’ve got my cell phone if you need to call . ”
“ Can Toph and Len come over ? ” I ask .
She sighs .
“ Okay .
But no roughhousing .
Remember you have school tomorrow . ”
She opens the garage door so I can get in .
I stand there and watch her back down the driveway .
She turns back , watching where she ’s going , and she needs to get her hair done again because I can really see the gray roots .
Cara is watching me through the watery glass , her mouth a little open .
I wave good-bye .
I ’m glad they ’re gone .
Wikinews interviews Mario J. Lucero and Isabel Ruiz of Heaven Sent Gaming
General questions
What is Heaven Sent Gaming ?
Heaven Sent Gaming is basically me and Isabel , I 'm Mario J. Lucero .
And , I 'm Isabel Ruiz .
And , together we formed this thing , it 's sort of like an entertainment team .
We started it basically , because I wanted to - I wanted to work with Isabel on a lot of projects that we had going on together .
We were coming with comics , like , left and right , we were coming up with things like Karis , in high school she came up with that one , I came up with an individual story called Thad 's World Destruction and , she wanted to illustrate it , and so , that 's the way we ended up doing it .
Yep , we like to just make our own original content , and , yep , that 's what we wanted to do .
How did you two meet ?
We met back in high school .
In this private , tiny-tiny private school of 50 students .
But , before hand in middle school , I kept on hearing about this guy named Mario , and he kept on hearing about me , this girl named Isabel .
And , everyone , all of our friends and all of our acquaintances would say , " Hey , you 'd get along with him really well . "
So before hand I kinda knew about him , but I never met him .
And one of our friends , our common friends , he introduced us during study hall , and we just kind of hit it off from there .
It 's true .
Who else is involved in this project ?
Currently , we 're in talks with people .
There 's Jeff [ Drake ] , who is behind the camera .
Right now , yeah , he 's helping us right now .
We 're talking about doing some individual web series , video series .
Josh Kindig , he 's coming on board , he has some ideas for that too , he wants to take over " aywv " and do more gaming news .
There 's of course Jason , who is our editor and he 's the one who writes dD .
Digital Domain
What is your purpose behind this venture ?
Well , back in college , back in Collins College , Isabel and I , we had met like she said at Sandia View Academy , and we went off to college together in Arizona ;
and ... ( how do I best explain this ? )
Basically , she came up with a few class projects , and I came up with a few class projects ;
we started working with a few of our friends , and colleagues and whatnot .
Those included Drew Cass , Devin Thurlow , people like that .
She had several ideas , and she used to draw a lot in the sketchbook , she used to have this thick sketchbook that she used to carry around with her everywhere , where she 'd draw these different characters and whatnot ;
and she was always really shy to show that off to people , and I wanted to help her show that stuff , and I wanted to bring it out to the world .
I was a writer , and she always liked my writings , so I was like , let 's just get both of our things together , and let 's get this done .
And for me , what I want the purpose to be , is to inspire people .
To bring a little more light to the world is what I want , out of all of this .
And what was the verse that we have ?
First Corinthians 9 : 25 ?
Yes .
Yeah , exactly .
We just want to be able to bring , like she said , bring light into the entertainment and into the media industry , specifically is what we do .
Yeah .
Lantern Festival in Taipei lights up the night
Monday , March 5 , 2007
Taipei , Taiwan — The Taipei City Lantern Festival was off to a bright start on Saturday Night as hundreds of thousands of people crowded onto the Chiang Kai Shek Memorial near downtown Taipei to witness city mayor Hau Lung-bin and other dignitaries ceremoniously flip the switch to light hundreds of colorful lantern scenes in and around the 240,000 square meter memorial park .
The centerpiece of this rock concert-like performance is a 15 meter high rotating pig equipped with a fog machine , laser light show and theme music .
The theme of this years lantern festival revolves around the 12 year Chinese zodiac cycles year of the pig .
Its round shape symbolizes wealth and good fortune and is believed to bring good luck .
Started in 1990 , the Taipei lantern festival continues a 2000 year old tradition of light related festivals marking the end of the Chinese New Year celebrations .
This particular event grows in popularity every year .
Last Year over 4 million visitors attended the event and this year the city expects about 6 million visitors according to the event website .
Colorful lantern scenes not only fill the central square but also the surrounding 2 km circumference of the memorial .
Each section has a theme .
One side of the memorial is scenes made by student groups while other areas represent the counties of Taiwan .
There is even a section of lanterns sponsored by foreign countries .
The Malaysia Tourism board was quite prominent at the main entrance to the grounds .
As with all new year celebrations in Taiwan , the lantern festival is crowded .
People flock to see the lantern scenes and enjoy the festival atmosphere as they carry lanterns , given away by the city and bought from street vendors at the event .
The many light toys such a swords , devil ears , and lanterns turn the milling crowd into a unique light show that can be observed by climbing the steps of the 70 meter memorial hall on the grounds .
Local public transportation hubs are often swamped by the event .
The station staff at Chiang Kai Shek Memorial Hall Station do an excellent job of crowd control but lines for the subway can still be hours long and very exhausting .
A sudden rain storm on Sunday night ( March 4 ) caused a mass exodus of people to head for the station prompting lines that backed up into the street .
The commuting crowds can be avoided however by walking from NTU Hospital Station or Shandao Station .
Both of these stops are only about a 20 minute walk from the event and have no crowds at all .
If you really want to avoid the crowds , definitely avoid the weekends .
Wait until the fourth or fifth day of the festival when the crowds will have dwindled .
I visited the festival on Saturday night , the opening night , and there was a sea of people in the square .
I went back the next Tuesday night and there was almost no one there , just a few stray photographers taking advantage of the unimpeded views of the lanterns .
The festival runs through March 11 this year .
Wikinews interviews President of the International Brotherhood of Magicians
Wednesday , October 9 , 2013
October is National Magic Month in the United States .
Wikinews spoke with William Evans , president of the International Brotherhood of Magicians , about the current state of magic and what its future looks like in the world of entertainment .
For how long have you been involved in performing / studying magic ?
Over 50 years .
I am 61 now so I really started when I was about 10 years old even though I had seen and worked with some basic tricks a few years earlier .
I remember going into Hollywood Magic and wanting that big red box with the dragons on it and I did n't even know what it did .
The magician behind the counter was wise enough not to sell it to me , but instead sold me two books which I still own today - " Scarne on Card Tricks " and " Scarne on Magic Tricks " .
That started me out on books and I have amassed quite a few since then .
My major influences on performance are Eugene Burger and Michael Skinner .
October is National Magic Month in the US .
Do you think magic is alive as a viable form of entertainment today ?
Absolutely .
There are more magicians working today than ever before .
There will always be an audience for good magicians doing good magic .
Has the internet helped or hurt magic ?
Both .
I think it has helped draw younger people to magic as a hobby , but I think it has hurt the ability of young magicians to think because so many rely on the internet for everything and they are n't reading the books .
We have to have knowledge of the history of magic and what has been done before .
Moreover , seeing someone perform on the internet takes away the use of our senses , originality and imagination that reading and thinking about magic can produce .
Anyone can become a monkey ; it takes serious study to become a magician .
Do you travel much in your current role ?
Yes , I am traveling quite a bit .
After I was inducted as International President in Phoenix in July , I have been to the Jeff McBride Experience in Eureka Springs , Arkansas , Magic Live in Las Vegas , The Midwest Magic Jubilee in St. Louis , the TAOM in Dallas , the British Ring Convention in Buxton , England and the Magic Circle in London .
I am going to Las Vegas and Los Angeles next month , Italy in November , back to Las Vegas in December , Mexico in January , Magi-Fest in February , the Winter Carnival of Magic in Tennessee in March , Eureka Springs Cavalcade of Magic in March , and the FFFF in April .
That 's as of now .
File photo of magician David Gish displaying magic props for a young child .
Image : Paul Budd .
How to Tell a Joke
Two Parts :
Getting the Material Right
Getting the Delivery Right
From one-liners to classic three-liners to the one-minute gag you tell your friends , a good joke pleases everyone .
Joke-telling is one of the best ways to ease tension , make a new friend , or light up a room .
That is , of course , if you can get a laugh .
Telling good jokes is an art that comes naturally to some people , but for others it takes practice and hard work .
Part 1 of 2 :
Getting the Material Right
Know your audience .
All aspects of the joke you tell , from the content to the length , need to be suited to your audience .
What ’s funny to a group of 20-year old college students may be very different from what makes your 70-year old - uncle laugh ( then again , maybe not ) .
Everyone ’s an individual , so there are no hard and fast rules .
But , unless you personally know the members of your audience , here are some good rules of thumb to follow :
elderly people wo n’t like crude jokes ;
stay away from misogynist jokes if you ’ve got an audience full of women ;
people of a specific ethnic or racial group wo n’t enjoy jokes making fun of their group ;
and jokes requiring specialized knowledge ( of , for example , science or old movies ) will only be appreciated by people who possess that knowledge .
The more you know about your audience the better you ’ll be able to tailor your jokes to them .
Choose great material .
You can find fodder lots of places — from your life , joke files online , by repurposing jokes you ’ve heard in the past , and so on .
You may want to start your own joke file .
You can write your jokes down on index cards to keep them handy or use a document file on your computer . [ 1 ]
The latter option may allow for easier revision .
Decide on a target .
Every joke has a “ target , ” which is what the joke is about .
It ’s important that the joke ’s target ( the most basic element of your material ) be suited to your audience .
Make sure it ’s a target your audience will be interested in and something they ’re likely willing to laugh at . [ 2 ]
For example , husbands are likely to laugh at jokes about wives and vice versa ;
students will typically find jokes about school and teachers humorous .
Have a realistic but exaggerated setup .
The opening of the joke — or setup — should have a basis in the real world so your audience can relate to it , but it should also include exaggeration because this is what gives a joke its humorous edge . [ 3 ]
Think of the setup as the foundation of a story .
It ’s a fundamental part of the joke ;
if you do n’t lay a good foundation here , then the punchline wo n’t make sense to the audience or they wo n’t find it humorous .
Your setup needs to be both realistic and exaggerated in order to be funny —
it ’s placing these two incongruous elements side by side that makes the joke funny . [ 4 ]
The exaggeration can be slight or considerable —
it just depends on the individual joke .
Surprise with the punchline .
The ending of the joke is obviously crucial .
This is where the payoff comes in , what makes the joke succeed or fail .
If you want to make the audience laugh , your punchline needs to be surprising .
Some jokes also have what is called a tag or topper , which is an additional punchline .
The tag builds on the original punchline or twists back on it in a surprising way .
Make the joke your own .
Lots of jokes rehash the same ground and sometimes they retell a story countless other jokes have told .
For your joke to be funny , it has to surprise the audience in some way , which means it has to seem original or new .
One way to personalize a joke is to change the ending . [ 5 ]
Another option is to dress the joke up as a story about your own life .
This will make a familiar joke unrecognizable .
It may also make it particularly interesting if your audience is your friend(s) . [ 6 ]
Know your material .
Practicing your joke is crucial .
You do n’t need to have it completely memorized — in fact , you " should n’t " memorize it — but you need to be really comfortable with it , so comfortable that you can continue on with telling it even if you get nervous or sidetracked , which is very possible once you ’re in front of an audience .
Memorized jokes sound wooden , like they are being read off a script instead of relayed by a friend or entertainer .
Good jokes have a lot of details and personality , so do n’t be afraid to embellish . [ 7 ]
Try different things out and see what feels right , what sounds best .
Do n’t use a joke until you ’re completely comfortable with it .
Try recording your joke on a tape player and playing it back to yourself .
If you hear a lot of awkward pauses or “ah”s or “um”s , your joke isn ’t ready and you need to practice more . [ 8 ]
You can also try practicing in front of a sympathetic friend or family member once you ’re ready for a “ real ” audience .
Texas student Ahmed Mohamed inspires social movement
Tuesday , September 22 , 2015
News of police response to a boy 's digital clock in Texas last week has inspired a global social movement in support of the youth .
Ahmed Mohamed , a 14-year-old boy from Irving , Texas , was arrested at his school by police after he brought a digital clock he had made to school .
After news of the police response was reported , Mohamed received support online ranging from US President Barack Obama to Facebook creator Mark Zuckerberg .
Yesterday Mohamed received VIP attention at Google headquarters in California at the Google Science Fair — and tomorrow he plans to meet international dignitaries at the United Nations headquarters in New York .
US President Barack Obama tweet to student Ahmed Mohamed
Image : Twitter / Barack Obama .
Mohamed brought the digital clock he made to school on September 14 , and a teacher mistakenly thought it resembled a bomb .
Police arrested and questioned the student .
Images of the boy wearing a NASA T-shirt and handcuffed by the police were quickly posted and reposted online .
The Deseret News observed that the hashtag on Twitter , #IStandWithAhmed , had become an international phenomenon .
The Straits Times noted what began as individual messages to Mohamed had grown into a " support movement " .
American academic and professor Marc Lamont Hill commented ,
" Hoping that the #istandwithahmed movement translates into a substantive national conversation on race , punishment , and incarceration . "
The Twitter attention led to outreach from Google and Mohamed was invited to their Google Science Fair .
Mohamed was a VIP guest at the Google Science Fair this weekend , and was able to meet finalists at the event held at Google 's headquarters located in Mountain View , California .
Co-founder of Google , Sergey Brin , personally met with Mohamed during his visit to Google .
On Wednesday , Mohamed and his father are to travel to the United Nations .
His father Mohamed El-Hassan Mohamed said he was taking his entire family to the U.N. headquarters in New York , because international dignitaries wanted to meet with his son and express their support .
Psychology major at University of Texas Arlington Amneh Jafari heard of the incident and wanted to issue her support to Mohamed .
She chose the hastag #IStandWithAhmed and posted to Twitter .
Jafari said she felt Mohamed had been subject to Islamophobia and her hashtag created greater awareness about this issue .
The hashtag took on a life of its own , and was used in messages on Twitter over one million times by Thursday night .
NASA tweeted support of Ahmed Mohamed via its account International Space Station
Image : Twitter / NASA .
US President Barack Obama tweeted using his @POTUS account :
" Cool clock , Ahmed .
Want to bring it to the White House ?
We should inspire more kids like you to like science .
It 's what makes America great . "
Twitter gave Mohamed the option to come to their company for an internship .
Facebook co-founder Mark Zuckerberg tweeted to Mohamed and said the boy was welcome to come and tour the company .
Executive director of the Dallas chapter of the Council on American - Islamic Relations Alia Salem said Mohamed wishes to use his newfound fame and attention to spotlight social causes including the treatment of Muslims in the United States .
University of Texas Arlington Muslim Student Association president Sehar Memon said the large amount of positive feedback for Mohamed had helped make his situation much better .
Memon also said she believed the social movement in reaction to Mohamed helped improve Muslim / non-Muslim .
Both the Irving Independent School District and the Irving Police Department have asserted that the boy 's religion and name were not a factor in the manner in which they approached the situation .
How to Pack Your Possessions When Moving
Even if you ca n't wait to live in your new house , curb your enthusiasm and resist the urge to cram all your possessions any which way into boxes .
Steps
Pack one room at a time if possible , and start with items that are least often used .
Write down a list of everything you are packing , in particular if it 's valuable .
Books , CDs , expensive clothes .
Also , take note of which item is in which box .
Use sturdy boxes .
Fill the box to the brim and seal the lid .
That way , you can easily stack boxes on top of one another .
Tape the bottom of the box securely so that it does n't give way .
Never fill a box until it is so heavy that you ca n't lift it safely .
Spread the heavy items over a few boxes .
Balance boxes with lighter items like towels or soft toys .
Pack the lighter items on top .
Use bubble wrap or newspapers when packing fragile items .
However , newsprint may smudge so use newspaper selectively .
Clean paper can be purchased cheaply from moving supply stores .
Mark boxes .
Boxes should be marked " Fragile " and " This side up " to prevent mishandling .
Label each box clearly and which room it belongs to .
Write on the sides of the box as well .
Pack a separate box of essentials you may need for the first night at your new house .
Include items like toiletries , toilet paper , bottled water , snacks and a change of clothes in case you can not unpack everything in time .
Tips
Do n't label boxes with contents if the contents are valuable .
Instead of writing " Silver Service - Fragile " you should write something that makes it sound less theft inviting while showing the fragile nature of the contents .
Example : " Mom 's old dishes " instead of " Fine China "
Tape is cheap .
Use lots of it .
Close box bottoms well .
Get masking tape or packing tape and tape screws and other little things that came out of something back against it .
You 'll want to find the right screw reassemble something without having to pick it out of 100 others when you get there .
Do n't pack one box full of books or paperwork - you might not be able to carry it at all .
Fill it halfway with books , and fill it up with lighter stuff .
National superstores ( Walmart ) will let you walk the store for boxes when they are stocking the stores between 11 pm and 1 am .
You can find boxes of all sizes .
Cereal , diaper and houseware boxes are a good size and durable .
Just take a cart and roam the store .
They do check the cart as you leave so do n't try to sneak anything past them .
U-haul and other nation companies offer box buy back services .
If you buy too many boxes you can return the unused for a full refund .
These boxes are also quite sturdy so you can re-use them or stash in your attic until you move again .
Some national companies even offer free shipping and handling so you can have some delivered or go to the local location .
Fill empty spaces with additional paper .
Throw away or donate junk you do n't want to take to your new place .
Do n't pack it again ! ! !
Set aside an area of the house where you can put all the packed boxes .
Use a room that is n't used every day such as the formal dining or living room .
You wo n't be tripping over boxes and you can have a better idea of what you have and where things are .
Pack books and heavy items into smaller boxes .
Digital Photos - use your camera to document the contents of boxes .
Chapter Two : Master Lunre
My father ’s actions were largely incomprehensible to me , guided by his own secret and labyrinthine calculations .
He dwelt in another world , a world of intrigue , bargains , contracts and clandestine purchases of land all over the island .
He was in many ways a world in himself , whole as a sphere .
No doubt his decisions were perfectly logical in his own eyes — even the one that prompted him , a patriotic islander , to bring me a tutor from Bain : Master Lunre , an Olondrian .
The day began as it usually did when my father was expected home from his travels , the house festooned with flowers and stocked with coconut liquor .
We stood by the gate , washed and perfumed and arrayed in our brightest clothes , my mother twisting her hands in her skirt , my father ’s wife with red eyes .
Jom , grown taller and broad in the shoulders , moaned gently to himself , while I stood nervously rubbing the heel of one sandal on the flagstones .
We scanned the deep blue valley for the first sign of the company , but before we saw them we heard the children shouting : “ A yellow man ! ”
A yellow man !
We glanced at one another in confusion .
My mother bit her lower lip ; Jom gave a groan of alarm .
At first I thought the children meant my father , whose golden skin , the color of the night-monkey ’s pelt , was a rarity in the islands ; but certainly the children of Tyom were familiar with my father , and would never have greeted a council-member with such ill-mannered yells .
Then I remembered the only “ yellow man ” I had ever seen , an Olondrian wizard and doctor who had visited Tyom in my childhood , who wore two pieces of glass on his eyes , attached to his ears with wires , and roamed the hills of Tinimavet , cutting bits off the trees .
I have since learned that that doctor wrote a well-received treatise , On the Medicinal Properties of the Juice of the Young Coconut , and died a respected man in his native city of Deinivel ; but at the time I felt certain he had returned with his sack of tree-cuttings .
“ There they are , ” said Pavit , the head house-servant , in a strained voice .
And there they were : a chain of riders weaving among the trees .
My father ’s plaited umbrella appeared , his still , imposing figure , and beside him another man , tall and lean , astride an island mule .
The hectic screams of the children preceded the company into the village , so that they advanced like a festival , drawing people out of their houses .
As they approached I saw that my father ’s face was shining with pride , and his bearing had in it a new hauteur , like that of the old island kings .
The man who rode beside him , looking uncomfortable with his long legs , kept his gaze lowered and fixed between the ears of his plodding mule .
He was not yellow , but very pale brown , the color of raw cashews ; he had silver hair , worn cropped close to the skull so that it resembled a cap .
He was not the leaf-collecting doctor , but an altogether strange man , with silver eyebrows in his smooth face and long fine-knuckled hands .
As he dismounted in front of the house I heard my mother whispering : “ Protect us , God with the Black-and-White Tail , from that which is not of this earth . ”
My father dismounted from his mule and strutted toward us , grinning .
I thought I caught an odor off him , of fish , sea-sickness and sweat .
We knelt and stared down at the bald ground , murmuring ritual greetings , until he touched the tops of our heads with the palm of his fleshy hand .
Then we stood , unable to keep from staring at the stranger , who faced us awkwardly , half-smiling , taller than any man there .
Education and early loves
Byron received his early formal education at Aberdeen Grammar School , and in August 1799 entered the school of Dr. William Glennie , in Dulwich . [ 17 ]
Placed under the care of a Dr. Bailey , he was encouraged to exercise in moderation but not restrain himself from " violent " bouts in an attempt to overcompensate for his deformed foot .
His mother interfered with his studies , often withdrawing him from school , with the result that he lacked discipline and his classical studies were neglected .
In 1801 , he was sent to Harrow , where he remained until July 1805 . [ 6 ]
An undistinguished student and an unskilled cricketer , he did represent the school during the very first Eton v Harrow cricket match at Lord 's in 1805 . [ 19 ]
His lack of moderation was not restricted to physical exercise .
Byron fell in love with Mary Chaworth , whom he met while at school , [ 6 ] and she was the reason he refused to return to Harrow in September 1803 .
His mother wrote , " He has no indisposition that I know of but love , desperate love , the worst of all maladies in my opinion . In short , the boy is distractedly in love with Miss Chaworth . " [ 6 ]
In Byron 's later memoirs , " Mary Chaworth is portrayed as the first object of his adult sexual feelings . " [ 20 ]
Byron finally returned in January 1804 , [ 6 ] to a more settled period which saw the formation of a circle of emotional involvements with other Harrow boys , which he recalled with great vividness : " My school friendships were with me passions ( for I was always violent ) . " [ 21 ]
The most enduring of those was with John FitzGibbon , 2nd Earl of Clare — four years Byron 's junior — whom he was to meet unexpectedly many years later in Italy ( 1821 ) . [ 22 ]
His nostalgic poems about his Harrow friendships , Childish Recollections ( 1806 ) , express a prescient " consciousness of sexual differences that may in the end make England untenable to him . " [ 23 ]
Letters to Byron in the John Murray archive contain evidence of a previously unremarked if short-lived romantic relationship with a younger boy at Harrow , John Thomas Claridge .
John FitzGibbon , 2nd Earl of Clare
Ah !
Sure some stronger impulse vibrates here , Which whispers friendship will be doubly dear To one , who thus for kindred hearts must roam , And seek abroad , the love denied at home .
The following autumn , he went up to Trinity College , Cambridge , [ 24 ] where he met and formed a close friendship with the younger John Edleston .
About his " protégé " he wrote , " He has been my almost constant associate since October , 1805 , when I entered Trinity College . His voice first attracted my attention , his countenance fixed it , and his manners attached me to him for ever . "
In his memory Byron composed Thyrza , a series of elegies . [ 25 ]
In later years , he described the affair as " a violent , though pure love and passion " .
This statement , however , needs to be read in the context of hardening public attitudes toward homosexuality in England and the severe sanctions ( including public hanging ) against convicted or even suspected offenders . [ 26 ]
The liaison , on the other hand , may well have been " pure " out of respect for Edleston 's innocence , in contrast to the ( probably ) more sexually overt relations experienced at Harrow School . [ 27 ]
Byron spent three years at Trinity College , engaging in sexual escapades , boxing , horse riding and gambling . [ 28 ]
Also while at Cambridge he formed lifelong friendships with men such as John Cam Hobhouse , who initiated him into the Cambridge Whig Club , which endorsed liberal politics , [ 28 ] and Francis Hodgson , a Fellow at King 's College , with whom he corresponded on literary and other matters until the end of his life .
Method 2 of 2 : Using Grammar
Name your language .
This is the most fundamental property in all languages .
You have many names to choose from .
You can even use a made up word from your made up language like ' Victory ' or ' Great Language ' .
The choice is all yours .
Start off with the highly frequently used words such as ' and ' or ' I ' or ' one ' or ' the ' .
It is recommend that you use short words since they are commonly used .
An example would be ' ant ' for and or ' es ' or even ' loo ' for the word ' and ' .
Start thinking about the grammar rules .
For example if the word Bird is ' Vogelaviatiolap ' then why not make the word Birds ' Vogelaviatiolaps ' since the suffix ' s ' is added at the end for most languages at plurals .
If you want to add complication , you can add genders like most European languages like French and German .
For example , if you want the word ' horse ' to be a boy , you may want ' the horse ' to be ' Mat Fereder ' , but a ' cat ' to be a girl , you may want , ' the cat ' to be ' Fet Kamaow ' .
Consider basing your language on an existing language .
For example , in my made up language , ' Vogelaviatiolap ' means Bird .
If you have n't guessed , it comes from the following :
' Vogel ' comes from German , which means bird
' aviatio ' comes from English .
It 's uncompleted though , because the word is part of the term ' aviation '
' lap ' comes from Onomatopoeia .
It 's a completed term , but it is supposed to come from ' Flap ! '
Consider basing some of your words from other words you have invented .
For example , if you invented the word ' China ' as ' Khinssa ' , ' Drink ' as ' Bever ' , and the word ' Accident ' as ' Casnondelibreaten ' , why not make the word ' tea ' as ' Khincasnonbever ' or ' Bevernondelibreatekin ' or even ' Khinssacasnondelibreatenibever ' !
Get inspiration from existing alphabets and words .
Why not add some non Latin Characters such as ß ?
You can even make the whole language not based on the Latin Alphabet at all like Chinese !
You can even take some words of languages , altering them or not .
You can make the word ' pen ' as ' penn ' or even ' pen ' .
Using the dictionary can ensure you not missing a single word .
Keep track of all your
Remember to write down your creations !
Use your language .
Get used to using it yourself , and spread it to others .
Once you feel confident about your language , experiment and expand :
Grab a book / novel and translate it to your own language .
Teach your friends this new language .
As soon as your friends understand your language , communicate to them with it .
Be fluent in your own made up language and start spreading this to your friends , family and strangers !
Write your own poem / novel / story with your own made up language .
If you 're really ambitious , set a goal of helping others become fluent in the language .
One day , maybe you can make it the official language of a country !
Tips
Make sure that it is a language that while speaking , you do n't get a literal knot in your tongue !
Remember you should know how to write it .
For example we write it from left to right , in Arabic it 's right to left , Chinese is in columns , and so on .
Make sure that you and your friend(s) all follow a systematic language system .
In other words , make sure that you follow the same guidelines .
Do n't use random letters .
It should make some sense , so that it will be easier to learn and speak with [ Example : Do n't use oh as e , hello as llo , and See ya as c yah ) .
Make sure you practice saying and spelling out many basic words in your language , English examples : is , who , when , of , why , if , what , where , can , may , etc .
When starting off , follow closely to a language you like .
This will make grammar much easier to make .
You must avoid simply copying the grammar rules , however , as this would technically turn your language into a code .
Practice your language frequently so that you do n't forget it !
Do n't forget punctuation !
As a shortcut , and for a bit of interesting background , add connotation to various letters , preferably vowels .
To do this , think of various words that begin with / have a lot of a certain vowel .
For example : austere , acrimony , ebullient , embolden ; in this case , the vowel A might carry with it a negative meaning , whereas E would be positive .
Then , even if you forget your own words without the help of your dictionary , you could still make a good guess based on the composition of the letters .
Try not to make your words sound like utter and complete gibberish just add a little extra than our regular English language .
We do n't want a knot in your tongue after speaking to your friends .
Just put marks over the letters or make up something right on the spot , you might have to take some time on this !
Basing letters on objects ( pictographs ) is an easy way to start a writing system .
Try this with a group of friends .
It 's much more fun when there are other people that can understand your language .
Email or text your friends the language so that they wo n't be so confused .
When making a writing system , take a break about every five minutes and come back to it or all your letters will begin to look identical .
If you want to make other languages , you can use this language as a model and change some letters or sounds to create a different language .
This makes your first language a proto-language — a language that branches off into a family of languages .
Introduction
Research on adult-learned second language ( L2 ) has provided considerable insight into the neurocognitive mechanisms underlying the learning and processing of L2 grammar [ 1 ] – [ 11 ] .
Of interest here , studies suggest that , despite the difficulties in acquiring L2 grammar , adult learners can approximate native-like levels of use and neurocognitive processing [ 12 ] – [ 15 ] .
However , it is not enough to have attained such native-like levels .
Crucially , it is also desirable to retain them , even in the absence of continued practice or exposure to the L2 .
In fact , substantial periods ( months to years ) of limited or no exposure following L2 training are not uncommon , and may even be the norm [ 16 ] .
Such a scenario may be found in different situations , including when one studies a language in a classroom and then stops taking classes [ 17 ] , [ 18 ] and when one is immersed in a foreign language setting and then moves away [ 19 ] .
In the present study , we examine the outcomes of such a period of no exposure on the neurocognition of L2 grammar : that is , whether a substantial period of no exposure leads to decreased proficiency and / or less native-like neural processes ( “ use it or lose it ” [ 20 ] ) , no such changes , or perhaps whether even higher proficiency and / or more native-like processing may be observed .
Additionally , we test whether any such outcomes might vary as a function of the type of L2 training , in particular between classroom-like and immersion-like contexts .
Previous Research
We are aware of six studies designed to investigate the effects of a substantial period of limited exposure following adult L2 training [ 17 ] , [ 18 ] , [ 21 ] – [ 24 ] , all of which were restricted to the examination of behavioral ( performance ) outcomes .
( Note that we do not consider case studies , purely observational data , or research on L2s acquired by children ; for a comprehensive review , see [ 16 ] ) .
The six studies tested L2 learners after periods of 1 month to 50 years of limited L2 exposure , mainly on general language skills [ 17 ] , [ 18 ] , [ 21 ] , [ 23 ] , [ 24 ] , though also on more specific paradigms meant to target aspects of grammatical abilities [ 17 ] , [ 18 ] or lexical abilities [ 22 ] , [ 23 ] .
These language measures were compared in most studies to the same measures in a different set of subjects who had not experienced a period of limited exposure [ 17 ] , [ 18 ] , [ 22 ] , [ 23 ] , or to retrospective ratings of the same subjects [ 21 ] , with only one longitudinal study testing the same subjects before and after a period of limited exposure [ 24 ] .
Across the studies , the periods of limited exposure followed either classroom training [ 17 ] , [ 18 ] , [ 22 ] , [ 24 ] or mixed classroom and immersion training [ 21 ] , [ 23 ] , [ 24 ] .
The training lasted varying lengths of time , apparently usually in the range of a few years , and resulted in seemingly varying proficiency levels ( though not directly measured , except by [ 24 ] ) prior to the period of limited exposure .
Overall , the results of the six studies have been taken to suggest the following .
A period of limited exposure generally leads to attrition ( loss ) of L2 performance or knowledge [ 17 ] , [ 18 ] , [ 21 ] , [ 23 ] .
Such loss has been observed after as little as a few months of limited exposure , e.g. , after a 1 - 7 month [ 23 ] or 6 month delay [ 21 ] , as well as after 2 years [ 18 ] , though in one case it was observed only by 3 - 5 years , and not earlier [ 17 ] .
Although attrition may take place within the first few years , some studies suggest that it then appears to level off , with no further losses occurring [ 17 ] , [ 18 ] .
Higher levels of proficiency ( or exposure ) may be associated with less attrition [ 17 ] , [ 18 ] , [ 21 ] , [ 23 ] or even with no observed losses [ 21 ] .
Moreover , one study found no changes at all in performance , across proficiency levels , after either 2 or 4 years of limited exposure [ 22 ] .
Finally , in some cases a gain in performance has been observed : after 1.5 years of limited exposure in one study , particularly for L2 learners with immersion as well as classroom training [ 24 ] , and in another study after 2 years , though only for some abilities , such as listening and reading comprehension [ 18 ] .
It remains unclear what might explain such gains , which have been attributed to motivation and to L2 experience during the period of ostensibly limited exposure [ 24 ] , or to factors related to general maturation , cognitive development , or continued academic training [ 18 ] .
The Chatham Islands
The Chatnam Islands ( Rekohu in the indigenous Moriori language ) are the eastern-most settled islands in New Zealand .
The islands are in their own time zone , 45 minutes ahead of New Zealand time ;
the International Date Line jogs eastward to keep them on the same calendar day as the rest of New Zealand .
The islands lie 860 km east of Christchurch , in the middle of the " Roaring Forties " .
Steeped in culture and history , these islands are on the very edge of civilisation .
Experience Moriori culture , experience Rekohu .
Understand
The Chatham Islands consist of the main island , Chatham Island itself , with a population of 600 , smaller Pitt Island with about 40 inhabitants , and a number of rocky outcrops .
The islands are volcanic in origin and have a unique and sensitive habitat that supports many rare and endangered species .
The original people of the islands are the Moriori , who were descended from the Maori of mainland New Zealand , but who developed their own culture and variant of the language .
In 1835 Maori settlers from the mainland arrived , massacred and enslaved the Moriori .
Get in
By plane
The only way for visitors to travel to the Chathams is via scheduled or chartered air service .
Air Chathams fly 5 days per week , from either Christchurch , Auckland or Wellington and , seasonally , from Napier .
The plane is based in the Chathams and flies to mainland New Zealand in the morning , then back to the Chathams in the afternoon .
As part of New Zealand , there are no passport or visa requirements and no border controls on arrival from the mainland .
You should book or ensure accommodation before you board a flight for the Chathams , as during the popular months of the tourism season , between October and April , accommodation can be severely limited .
There are no same-day return flights , so once there you have to stay at least one night .
Although flying to the Chathams and back is not cheap , it is worth it .
Even the mainland school groups that fly there for school camps , and choose to stay at Kopinga Marae [ 1 ] get value for money by chartering a flight one way .
Anyway , you do n't have a choice on how you get there , unless you happen to own an aeroplane .
However , when you get off that aeroplane , if you have n't pre-organised transport , you will have to walk , and it is a long way into town .
By boat
The only scheduled shipping service to the Chatham Islands remains the Black Robin Freighters " Rangatira " , an antiquated , slow and small coastal trading vessel .
This boat has serviced the islands for many years , but does not carry passengers .
Freight charges on the Rangatira appear to be flexible and subject to change .
Vessels can call at the Chathams and there are a number of " safe " harbours for shelter if the need arises .
Remember to notify the local policeman , or Ministry of Fisheries officer if you are entering New Zealand via the Chathams .
If you want a wharf berthage then call the local harbour master as you near the Chathams and he will sort you out .
Get around
There are several businesses on Chatham Island that will rent you a vehicle .
Do not expect the flashest and latest in rental cars though .
The cars " will " be warranted and safe , but they wo n't be exceptionally " flash " .
Chatham Motors have a range of nice rental vans available as well and they provide pretty good service for both visitors and locals .
See
Basalt columns
Some of the world 's most rare and endangered birds , plants and insects .
Unique tree carvings done by the peaceful Moriori people hundreds of years ago .
Henga Scenic Reserve .
Set adjacent to Henga Lodge is the magnificent Henga Scenic Reserve .
Guests of the lodge can meander around either a short easy walk , or take the longer 2 hr return walk out onto the spectacular beach .
Access is free to Lodge guests .
Hapupu National Historic Scenic Reserve .
One of only two National Historic Scenic Reserves in New Zealand ( the other is the Waitangi Treaty Grounds ) , Hapupu is a special place , and somewhere that you will want to tell others about .
Spiritually and culturally important to Moriori , it holds the last known concentration of momori-rakau , or tree carvings done by the ancestors of today 's Moriori .
There are many views on why they did these carvings , but whatever the reason , you will find them a very special attraction .
Port Hutt .
One of the most scenicly attractive ports in the whole of New Zealand , Port Hutt boasts an incredibly sheltered little harbour , with picturesque views and safe anchorage in all weather .
Historically important and economically crucial for these islands today , Port Hutt is the ideal location for a short browse around and a mecca for those photography buffs [ 2 ] .
Kopinga Marae .
If you could define a place that will remind you of your visit to the Chathams , then this very special place will be at the top of your list .
Opened in 2005 , Kopinga is the official meeting place of Te Imi Moriori .
Adorned with contemporary Moriori carvings and traditional taonga ( treasures ) , the marae is a magnificent , tasteful and contemporary testament to the ancestors of Te Imi Moriori .
Enjoy a guided tour of this beautiful and peaceful building .
School-Camps At Kopinga Marae [ 3 ] also utilise this wonderful national treasure for hosting visiting school groups .
Tommy Solomon Statue .
Tame Horomona Rehe was the last known full-blooded Moriori and he passed away in 1933 .
He was however , not the last Moriori .
His own descendants and the descendants of other Moriori live on today .
Come and have a look at this statue , erected in 1985 to commemorate his passing .
Come and see Manakau , the property of his descendants , located on the eastern corner of Rekohu and blessed with the sun 's first rays as they rise above the sea each day .
How to Get Rid of Mice Naturally
Having mice in your home is both a nuisance and a health hazard .
They can cause property damage , create a mess , and produce unpleasant smells .
In addition , repelling and removing rodents from your home can be a hassle if you do n't know what you are doing .
It can also be dangerous if you use toxic chemicals and poisons .
It 's a good thing , then , that there are some simple ways to effectively get mice out of your home without the use of toxic chemicals and poisons .
Method 1 Discouraging Mice Naturally
Keep your home clean .
Many times mice are drawn into homes on the search for food .
If there is nothing to eat , mice will be less likely to stay .
Keep all food stored properly in airtight containers or in places that are safe from mouse attack . [ 1 ]
Apply peppermint oil .
Peppermint oil is a natural deterrent .
The smell is simply too intense for rodents and they will not try to go near it .
It also helps to mask the scent of any tasty morsels that have been missed when cleaning .
It also gives the house a lovely smell , and is not toxic , unlike many synthetic chemical treatments .
You can get peppermint oil in most health food stores and even some major grocery stores . [ 2 ]
Place a drop or two on a cotton ball .
Place a cotton ball under or near your garbage can to deter mice from getting into it .
Place the cotton balls in areas where mice are likely to enter your house , by doorways , or heat vents , etc .
Peppermint oil cotton balls need to be replaced after 5 - 7 days , depending upon the quantity of oil you put on it .
Try growing peppermint plants near the entryways .
You can use the mint in cooking , as well as it serving a deterrent purpose .
Use dried snake feces .
Visit a local reptile center , zoo , or pet store and ask for some dried snake poo .
You can also sometimes find someone who owns a pet snake .
Place near entrances and in places where mice seem to go .
This will keep mice away . [ 3 ]
Be sure to keep the feces out of the reach of children and pets .
Zap mice with ultrasonic sounds .
There are electronic units sold that emit an ultrasonic beeping sound that rodents hate .
They should be available at your local home improvement store or online .
These work only on a single line of sight , so you need to know the exact path the mice are taking .
The units may only work for a short time because mice can become used to them . [ 4 ]
Use a commercial , organic deterrent .
Many companies that specialize in organic garden and home products make mice repellents that are better for the environment than traditional poisons .
Many of these products use natural ingredients , such as peppermint , that are known to be disagreeable to mice .
They will not kill mice but they should keep them out of areas where the product is applied .
These products should be available at your local gardening or home improvement center .
If you want a specific product , try doing a online search to see where it is available locally .
Get a cat .
A house cat can take care of the problem .
Cats that spend time outdoors are more likely to hunt to find their own food and may track down that mouse .
Just be aware , not all cats have enough energy , interest or training to hunt mice .
Kittens typically have to be taught by the mother to easily become a mouser .
Well-food indoor kitties might just see the mouse as a toy , and grow quickly bored of it after scaring it half witless .
Shelters and adoption agencies often do not know if a cat is a good mouse hunter , and generally do not test for this .
Sometimes this information is available , but usually not .
While many mousers are great pets as well , not all are .
" Barn cats " may not be socialized well with humans , although used to hunting mice for food .
Even if you do not have a cat , you can use used kitty litter to deter mice .
Place tubs of used kitty litter around entrances of the house .
The mice will sniff the smell of cat urine and clear off in a jiffy .
If you have a large infestation , a cat may not be enough to totally get rid of it .
However , once you eliminate the infestation , a cat will probably prevent reinfestation . [ 5 ]
Put your trash cans far from your home .
Mice smell garbage and get attracted to your house .
If you keep the cans away from the house , they are less likely to take up residence in your home .
Promote the nesting of birds of prey in your yard .
Build a shelter box in your garden to attract some onto your property .
This may take some time , but it 's worth the effort if you can attract a wild mouse eater to your yard . [ 6 ]
Make sure the shelter box has no nails or safety hazards .
A barn owl is the best .
A family of barn owls can eat many mice in a night !
However , you might attract other types of owls or birds of prey with your nesting box .
The Chemical Wedding by Christian Rosencreutz
A ROMANCE IN EIGHT DAYS by JOHANN VALENTIN ANDREAE in a new version by JOHN CROWLEY illustrated by THEO FADEL
SMALL BEER PRESS EASTHAMPTON , MASS .
Introduction
I
The Chemical Wedding by Christian Rosencreutz is the way I ’ve decided to present the title of this book .
Most versions in English are called The Chemical Wedding of Christian Rosencreutz , which suggests ( and most people who ’ve heard of it suppose ) that the wedding is Christian ’s .
It ’s not ; Christian Rosencreutz is the purported author of a book called The Chemical Wedding .
The actual author is Johann Valentin Andreae , whose name did n’t appear on the book originally , thus ensuring the confusion .
I ’ll call it herein ( as everyone mostly does ) simply The Chemical Wedding .
Though its original readers would have had a certain amount of context for the truly bizarre and surprising events it tells of , it ’s possible that The Chemical Wedding is now more enjoyable without knowing that context , and experiencing the book unmediated .
You might therefore wish to start right in on the first page of text that follows and only then return to this introduction .
Consider a similar case : a little book published in 1934 by the Surrealist artist Max Ernst called Une Semaine de Bonté .
It was made entirely of collaged illustrations cut out of old books
The First Day
It was just before Easter Sunday , 1 and I was sitting at my table .
I ’d said my prayers , talking a long time as usual with my Maker and thinking about some of the great mysteries the Father of Lights had revealed to me .
Now I was ready to make and to bake – only in my heart , actually – a small , perfect unleavened wafer to eat with my beloved Paschal Lamb .
All of a sudden a terrible wind blew up , so strong that I thought the hill my little house was built on would be blown apart – but I ’d seen the Devil do things as bad as this before ( the Devil had often tried to harm me ) , so I took heart and went on meditating .
Till I felt somebody touch me on the back .
This frightened me so that I did n’t dare turn .
I tried to stay as brave and calm as a human being could under the circumstances .
I felt my coat tugged at , and tugged again , and at last I looked around .
A woman stood there , so bright and beautiful , in a sky-colored robe – a heavens covered with
1 Christian ’s story begins just before Easter , like Dante ’s Divine Comedy .
It can be seen as an allegory of Christ ’s death and resurrection , though this idea produces some puzzles .
The birds sang so beautifully , the young deer skipped so happily , that it gladdened my old heart , and I could n't help singing too ...
THE FOURTH DAY
I was awake and lying in bed next morning , looking idly at the wonderful images and inscriptions all around my room , when suddenly I heard the sound of trumpets , as if a procession were already underway .
My page jumped out of bed as if crazed , looking more dead than alive , and you can imagine how I felt when he cried , “ They 're already being presented to the king ! "
I could only groan in frustration and curse my lazy bones .
I got dressed , but my page was quicker than I was and ran out of the chamber to see what was what .
He soon came back and gave me the good news that I actually had n’t overslept ; all I ’d done was miss breakfast : they had n’t wanted to wake an old man who needed his rest .
But now I had to get ready to go with him to the lion fountain , where most of the others were gathered .
Such a relief !
My spirits recovered , and as soon as I had got into my habit , I followed him to the garden I have already told about .
I found that the lion , in place of his sword , now held a rather large plaque .
Examining this , I could tell that it had been taken from those ancient monuments I ’d seen and put here for some special reason .
The inscription on it was fading away , so I should set it down here as it was then , and ask my readers to ponder it :
Prince Hermes : Now after humankind has suffered so much harm here I flow having by god ’s counsel and with the help of art become a healing balm .
Drink from me if you can ; wash , if you like ; trouble my waters if you dare .
Drink , Brethren !
Drink and live !
Perfect Teeth
Steven wanted to be a dentist .
It was pretty much the first thing he told us when , as first years , we were all bunched together in the unfamiliar dusty classroom .
When , a couple of weeks later we were invited over to his house we saw that this was not an idle remark .
Where our bedroom walls were decorated with posters of pop stars and footballers , Steven had diagrams setting out tooth implementations , anatomical drawings of the jaw with brightly coloured nerves , muscle , blood vessels , bones , and , of course , teeth .
Where we had shelves of plastic dinosaurs and superhero figurines from cornflake boxes , Steven had plaster casts of jawbones , gums and teeth grinning down at us .
The instruments were locked away in glass cabinets and only his parents had the key .
“ They do n’t exactly encourage my interest , ” he shrugged .
“ They sort of tolerate it .
But Dad says they ’re a sort of collection , and too expensive for me to play with . ”
Of course , we tried to pick the locks , but the spikes and saws and drillheads remained — tantalisingly — out of reach .
We did n’t see Steven ’s interest as strange , well , not that much .
We all had our own interests — drawing , electronics , collecting beer caps — that each appeared obscure to anyone else .
DIY Dentistry was just something that had never crossed our horizon before .
And if Steven did n’t see it as weird , or no weirder than Andy showing us his Eastern-Block beer caps all laid out neatly on cork boards with little hand-written labels , why should it bother us ?
I suppose that , in our own way , we were all collectively strange .
The bunch that no one picked for their side at football or hockey , and that was the glue that held us together .
Besides , Steven had some really good stuff : sweets that stained your teeth bright red — well , technically , not your teeth , just the plaque , but the result was often the same .
It took a few days good brushing to get it off .
Well , most of it anyway .
He had effervescent tablets that turned the canteen drinking water into that exact same pink mixture that the dentist gave you to rinse your mouth out after scraping around inside , and guaranteed to make the other kids splutter and spit it out when the taste slowly percolated through and met the memory of their last checkup .
Then there was the event that became the rite of passage into our group of misfits and outcasts : making a mould of your teeth .
It was inevitable that one of us , seeing the plaster casts on the shelf by Steven ’s bed would ask how they were done .
It was just as inevitable that a few minutes later , Steven would be mixing up various powders and liquids , and pouring them into a horse-shoe shaped contraption .
It was n’t dangerous .
At least , I suppose so .
It was vaguely uncomfortable , and appeared sufficiently disturbing that we all volunteered each other in turn until , at last , Andy said he was game .
And we were off .
The hardest part was probably to overcome the gagging reflex that set in when you bit down into the acrid resin jelly and it flowed out and up and around , over teeth , gums and tongue .
Your nose filled with what you imagined were fumes from the warm paste .
And you seemed to be suddenly drowning in your own saliva .
Things generally got better when Steven reminded you that you could actually breathe , and swallow , normally .
He watched the second hand trotting round the dial of his watch mouthing the quarters , before poking the setting goo to check its consistency .
Then , when he gave you the nod , you tried to prise your jaws apart .
As the seal around your gums and teeth was pretty solid , you thought it would never come off , as the others giggled at your expressions and grimaces .
Steven jiggled the handle that stuck out beyond your front teeth like some metallic duck ’s bill , turning and twisting it most professionally and murmuring encouragements .
And , then , with an awful sucking slurp , it came free .
The initiated then revelled in retelling the gross sensation of having this evil-smelling plastic slug invade your mouth , while the others waited their turn with mixed trepidation and excitement .
Raucous laughter greeted the suggestions of the other body parts that could receive the same treatment .
The next part of the proceedings was less thrilling .
Steven measured and mixed the plaster of Paris and prepared for the cast by using a bright blue putty to build up the form of the jaw , and shoring up gaps and holes .
It get even less exciting when he said we ’d have to wait an hour while the plaster set real solid .
But the next time we visited his room we got to marvel at our toothy grins labelled and lined up on the shelf .
We were all perfectly happy with the result , even wanting one as a trophy until Steven passed an expert eye over them , pointing out here a gap , here a filling , and there a completely misaligned incisor .
We were , he told us , mediocre specimens for his collection .
It did n’t matter .
We were all friends , a group bonded by the common experience of being able to see our teeth on Steven ’s shelf .
Zaha Hadid
Dame Zaha Mohammad Hadid DBE RA ( Arabic : زها حديد Zahā Ḥadīd ; 31 October 1950 – 31 March 2016 ) was an Iraqi-British architect .
She was the first woman to receive the Pritzker Architecture Prize , in 2004 .
She received the UK 's most prestigious architectural award , the Stirling Prize , in 2010 and 2011 .
In 2012 , she was made a Dame by Elizabeth II for services to architecture , and in 2015 she became the first and only woman to be awarded the Royal Gold Medal from the Royal Institute of British Architects .
She was described by The Guardian of London as the ' Queen of the curve ' , who " liberated architectural geometry , giving it a whole new expressive identity . "
Her major works include the aquatic centre for the London 2012 Olympics , Michigan State University 's Broad Art Museum in the US , and the Guangzhou Opera House in China .
Some of her designs have been presented posthumously , including the statuette for the 2017 Brit Awards , and many of her buildings are still under construction , including the Al Wakrah Stadium in Qatar , a venue for the 2022 FIFA World Cup .
Early life and academic career
Hadid was born on 31 October 1950 in Baghdad , Iraq , to an upper-class Iraqi family .
Her father Mohammed Hadid Muhammad al-Hajj Husayn Hadid was a wealthy industrialist from Mosul .
He co-founded the left-liberal al-Ahali group in 1932 , a significant political organisation in the 1930s and 1940s .
He was the co-founder of the National Democratic Party in Iraq .
He served as minister of finance after the overthrow of the monarch after the 1958 Iraqi coup d'état for the government of General Abd al-Karim Qasim .
Her mother Wajiha al-Sabunji was an artist from Mosul .
In the 1960s Hadid attended boarding schools in England and Switzerland .
Hadid studied mathematics at the American University of Beirut before moving , in 1972 , to London to study at the Architectural Association School of Architecture .
There she studied with Rem Koolhaas , Elia Zenghelis and Bernard Tschumi .
Her former professor , Koolhaas , described her at graduation as " a planet in her own orbit . "
Zenghelis described her as the most outstanding pupil he ever taught .
" We called her the inventor of the 89 degrees .
Nothing was ever at 90 degrees .
She had spectacular vision .
All the buildings were exploding into tiny little pieces . "
He recalled that she was less interested in details , such as staircases .
" The way she drew a staircase you would smash your head against the ceiling , and the space was reducing and reducing , and you would end up in the upper corner of the ceiling .
She could n’t care about tiny details .
Her mind was on the broader pictures —
when it came to the joinery she knew we could fix that later .
She was right . ’
Her fourth-year student project was a painting of a hotel in the form of a bridge , inspired by the works of the Russian suprematist artist Kazimir Malevich
The Beast
I was thirteen .
It was spring , the barren time in March when you can not be sure if it is really warmer , but you are so desperate for change that you tell yourself the mud at the edge of the sidewalk is different from winter mud and you are sure that the smell of wet soil has suddenly a bit of the scent of summer rains , of grass and drowned earthworms .
And it has , because it is spring and inside the ground something is stirring .
I was wearing a yellow linen dress which my mother had picked out and which I therefore disliked although I knew it flattered me .
My shoes were white and I was concentrating on keeping them out of the mud .
My father and I were going to mass — my mother did not go ; she was Protestant .
My father put his hand on top of my hair , his palm on my head , and I could feel the bone of my skull and my skin and his hot palm , so dry and strong .
When I was a little girl , he did that often , and called me Muscles .
He had not called me Muscles or put his hand on my head for a long time .
I could not help arching my back a little , I wanted to push against his hand like a cat but the instinct that comes with being thirteen , the half-understood caution that makes a girl timid , or wild , the shyness told me to just walk .
I wanted to feel the rough edge of the pocket of his coat against my cheek , but I was too tall .
I wanted to be seven again , and safe .
But I still wanted to push against his hand and put my hand in his pocket and steal the leather palmed glove , that secret animal .
Instead I went into the church , took a Bulletin , dipped my finger in Holy Water and genuflected .
The inside of the church smelled like damp wood and furniture polish , not alive at all .
My father took off his coat and draped it over the edge of the pew and when I came back from communion I stole his glove .
The paper taste of the wafer was still in my mouth and I took a deep breath of the leather .
It smelled like March .
We walked back through the school because it was drizzling , my father tall in his navy suit and my shoes going click on the linoleum .
There were two classes of each grade , starting at the sixth and going down to the first .
The hall ended in a T and we went left through the gym , walked underneath the bleachers and stood next to the side door , waiting for the rain to stop .
It was dark under the bleachers .
My father was a young man , thirty-five , younger because he liked to be outside , to play softball on Saturday and to take my mother and me camping on vacation .
He stood rocked back on his heels with his coat thrown over his shoulders and his hands in his pockets .
I thought of bacon and eggs , toast with peach jam out of the jar .
I was so hungry .
The space under the bleachers was secret and dark .
There were things in the shadows ; a metal pail , a mop , rags .
Next to the door was a tall wrought-iron candle holder — the kind that stood at either end of the altar .
There was no holder and the end was jagged .
On the floor was a wrapper from a French Chew .
They were sold at eighth-grade basketball games on Friday nights .
The light from the door made the shadows under the bleachers darker , the long space stretched far away .
I heard the rain and the faint rustle of paper and smelled damp concrete .
I did not go near my father but kept my hand in my pocket , feeling the soft leather glove .
There was a rustling on the concrete and the drizzle of soft rain .
I wondered if anyone ever went back under the bleachers , if there were crickets or mice there .
The rustling might have been mice .
I wished the rain would stop .
I wanted to go home .
I made noises with my heels but they were too loud so I stopped .
Something else clicked and I tried to see what it was but could n’t see anything .
It was n’t as loud as my heels .
My father cleared his throat , looking out the door .
I imagined a man down there in the dark , an escaped convict or a madman .
It had nearly stopped raining .
In fifteen minutes we would be home and my mother would fry eggs .
I heard a noise like paper .
My father heard it , too , but he pretended not to , at least he did n’t turn his head .
And there was a heavier sound , a rasp , like a box pulled over concrete .
I looked at my father but he did n’t turn his head .
I wished he would turn his head .
There was a click again and the rustle , and I could not think of what it could be .
I had no explanation for the particular combination of sounds .
No doubt there was , some two things that happened to be making noises at the same time .
Once in a fever I heard thousands of birds outside my window and I was terrified that they would fling themselves through the glass and attack me , but it was only the rain on the eaves .
Warhol 's photo legacy spread by university exhibits
Tuesday , January 28 , 2014
Portrait shot of Dennis Hopper , famous for his role in the 1969 film Easy Rider , amongst the Warhol Polaroids donated to USI by the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts .
Image : Andy Warhol .
Opening night , January 23 , 2014 , of the Andy Warhol exhibit of Polaroids and screen prints at the University of Southern Indiana .
Video : Miharris & Acphillips .
Evansville , Indiana , United States -
This past week marked the opening night of an Andy Warhol exhibit at the University of Southern Indiana .
USI 's art gallery , like 189 other educational galleries and museums around the country , is a recipient of a major Warhol donor program , and this program is cultivating new interest in Warhol 's photographic legacy .
Wikinews reporters attended the opening and spoke to donors , exhibit organizers and patrons .
The USI art gallery celebrated the Thursday opening with its display of Warhol 's Polaroids , gelatin silver prints and several colored screen prints .
USI 's exhibit , which is located in Evansville , Indiana , is to run from January 23 through March 9 .
Full interview with Kristin Wilkins , curator of the exhibition at the University of Southern Indiana .
Audio : Jkthom .
The McCutchan Art Center / Pace Galleries at USI bases its exhibit around roughly 100 Polaroids selected from its collection .
The Polaroids were all donated by the Andy Warhol Photographic Legacy Program , according to Kristen Wilkins , assistant professor of photography and curator of the exhibit .
The Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts made two donations to USI Art Collections , in 2007 and a second recently .
Kathryn Waters , director of the gallery , expressed interest in further donations from the foundation in the future .
Since 2007 the Andy Warhol Photographic Legacy Program has seeded university art galleries throughout the United States with over 28,000 Andy Warhol photographs and other artifacts .
The program takes a decentralized approach to Warhol 's photography collection and encourages university art galleries to regularly disseminate and educate audiences about Warhol 's artistic vision , especially in the area of photography .
University exhibits
Kristen Wilkins , curator of " Andy Warhol : Photographs and Prints from the University Collection " at the University of Southern Indiana , January 23 - March 9 2014 .
Image : Snbehnke .
Wikinews provides additional video , audio and photographs so our readers may learn more .
Wilkins observed that the 2007 starting date of the donation program , which is part of the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts , coincided with the 20th anniversary of Andy Warhol 's death in 1987 .
USI was not alone in receiving a donation .
K.C. Maurer , chief financial officer and treasurer at the Andy Warhol Foundation , said 500 institutions received the initial invitation and currently 190 universities have accepted one or more donations .
Institutional recipients , said Mauer , are required to exhibit their donated Warhol photographs every ten years as one stipulation .
While USI is holding its exhibit , there are also Warhol Polaroid exhibits at the Tang Teaching Museum and Art Gallery at Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs , New York and an Edward Steichen and Andy Warhol exhibit at the Mary & Leigh Block Museum of Art at Northwestern University in Evanston , Illinois .
All have received Polaroids from the foundation .
University exhibits can reach out and attract large audiences .
For example , the Weatherspoon Art Museum at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro saw attendance levels reach 11,000 visitors when it exhibited its Warhol collection in 2010 , according to curator Elaine Gustafon .
That exhibit was part of a collaboration combining the collections from Duke University , located in Durham , North Carolina , and University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill , which also were recipients of donated items from the Andy Warhol Photographic Legacy Program .
Superstars
Each collection donated by the Andy Warhol Photographic Legacy Program holds Polaroids of well-known celebrities .
The successful UNC Greensboro exhibit included Polaroids of author Truman Capote and singer-songwriter Carly Simon .
" I think America 's obsession with celebrity culture is as strong today as it was when Warhol was living " , said Gustafon .
" People are still intrigued by how stars live , dress and socialize , since it is so different from most people 's every day lives . "
Wilkins explained Warhol 's obsession with celebrities began when he first collected head shots as a kid and continued as a passion throughout his life .
" He 's hanging out with the celebrities , and has kind of become the same sort of celebrity he was interested in documenting earlier in his career " , Wilkins said .
The exhibit at USI includes Polaroids of actor Dennis Hopper ; musician Nick Rhodes of Duran Duran ; publishers Jann Wenner of Rolling Stone Magazine and Carlo De Benedetti of Italy 's la Repubblica ; disco club owner Steve Rubell of Studio 54 ; photographers Nat Finkelstein , Christopher Makos and Felice Quinto ; and athletes Vitas Gerulaitis ( tennis ) and Jack Nicklaus ( golf ) .
Wikinews observed the USI exhibit identifies and features Polaroids of fashion designer Halston , a former resident of Evansville .
University collections across the United States also include Polaroids of " unknowns " who have not yet had their fifteen minutes of fame .
Cynthia Thompson , curator and director of exhibits at the University of Arkansas , Fayetteville , said , " These images serve as documentation of people in his every day life and art - one which many of us enjoy a glimpse into . "
Warhol 's photographic legacy
Warhol was close to important touchstones of the 1960s , including art , music , consumer culture , fashion , and celebrity worship , which were all buzzwords and images Wikinews observed at USI 's opening exhibit .
He was also an influential figure in the pop art movement .
" Pop art was about what popular American culture really thought was important " , Kathryn Waters said .
" That 's why he did the Campbell Soup cans or the Marilyn pictures , these iconic products of American culture whether they be in film , video or actually products we consumed .
So even back in the sixties , he was very aware of this part of our culture .
Which as we all know in 2014 , has only increased probably a thousand fold . "
" I think everybody knows Andy Warhol 's name , even non-art people , that 's a name they might know because he was such a personality " , Water said .
Hilary Braysmith , USI associate professor of art history , said , " I think his photography is equally influential as his graphic works , his more famous pictures of Marilyn .
In terms of the evolution of photography and experimentation , like painting on them or the celebrity fascination , I think he was really ground-breaking in that regard . "
The Polaroid format is not what made Warhol famous , however , he is in the company of other well-known photographers who used the camera , such as Ansel Adams , Chuck Close , Walker Evans , Robert Mapplethorpe , and Helmut Newton .
Wilkins said , " [ Warhol ] liked the way photo booths and the Polaroid 's front flash looked " .
She explained how Warhol 's adoption of the Polaroid camera revealed his process .
According to Wilkins , Warhol was able to reproduce the Polaroid photograph and create an enlargement of it , which he then could use to commit the image to the silk screen medium by applying paint or manipulating them further .
One of the silk screens exhibited at USI this time was the Annie Oakley screen print called " Cowboys and Indians " from 1987 .
Wilkins also said Warhol was both an artist and a businessperson .
" As a way to commercialize his work , he would make a blue Marilyn and a pink Marilyn and a yellow Marilyn , and then you could pick your favorite color and buy that .
It was a very practical salesman approach to his work .
He was very prolific but very business minded about that . "
" He wanted to be rich and famous and he made lots of choices to go that way " , Wilkins said .
USI exhibit
Kiara Perkins , a second year USI art major , admitted she was willing to skip class Thursday night to attend the opening exhibit but then circumstances allowed for her to attend the exhibit .
Why did she so badly want to attend ?
" It 's Warhol .
He is a legend . "
For Kevin Allton , a USI instructor in English , Warhol was also a legend .
He said , " Andy Warhol was the center of the Zeitgeist for the 20th century and everything since .
He is a post-modern diety . "
Allton said he had only seen the Silver Clouds installation before in film .
The Silver Clouds installation were silver balloons blown up with helium , and those balloons filled one of the smaller rooms in the gallery .
" I thought that in real life it was really kind of magical , " Allton said .
" I smacked them around . "
Elements of the Zeitgeist were also playfully recreated on USI 's opening night .
In her opening remarks for attendees , Waters pointed out those features to attendees , noting the touches of the Warhol Factory , or the studio where he worked , that were present around them .
She pointed to the refreshment table with Campbell 's Soup served with " electric " Kool Aid and tables adorned with colorful gumball " pills " .
The music in the background was from such bands as The Velvet Underground .
The big hit of the evening , Wikinews observed from the long line , was the Polaroid-room where attendees could wear a Warhol-like wig or don crazy glasses and have their own Polaroid taken .
The Polaroids were ready in an instant and immediately displayed at the entry of the exhibit .
Exhibit goers then became part of the very exhibit they had wanted to attend .
In fact , many people Wikinews observed took out their mobiles as they left for the evening and used their own phone cameras to make one further record of the moment - a photo of a photo .
Perhaps they had learned an important lesson from the Warhol exhibit that cultural events like these were ripe for use and reuse .
We might even call these exit instant snap shots , the self selfie .
Get in
For information specific to U.S. citizens see Americans in Cuba
Visa and legal issues
A tourist visa card ( visa de tarjeta del turista ) is necessary for travelers from most nations .
This visa , which is really little more than a piece of paper on which you list your vital statistics , costs between 15 - 25 CUC ( or € 15 - 25 ) , depending on where purchased .
It can be purchased at the Airport in Cuba on arrival , however it should be noted that many airlines will require a valid tourist visa card before boarding flights .
It is usually valid for 30 days and can be extended once for another 30 days at any immigration office in Cuba ( for 25 CUC ) - beyond this you would need a flight out of Cuba within the extended visa period .
Canadians are the exception , getting 90 days on arrival and can apply for a 90 day extension .
Your passport needs to be valid at least six months past the end of your planned return .
Canadian passports must be valid for at least one month beyond the date of expected departure ( [ 2 ] ) .
From Canada , the tourist card is normally provided on the flight .
It can also be purchased from most Latin American gateway airports if departing from there ( Cancun : 250 MXN , Mexico City : USD 25 ) .
Please note that if departing from Europe ( this may apply to other countries ) , you will require to have the visa before boarding the plane .
Some times , the airline provides these at the airport , however check first that this is the case .
Without a valid visa , boarding will be denied ( the airline would otherwise get a $ 1,000 fine from the Cuban immigration authorities ) .
Country-specific advise
UK : Applying for the visa is a very simple process and can be done by post or in person at the Cuban embassy in London .
When applying to the Cuban Consulate by post , there is a new charge introduced in 2011 which is a £ 25 for a non-personal transaction .
If you cannot go to the Cuban Consulate you may consider using VisaCuba ( [ 3 ] ) because it may be cheaper .
Through them it may cost £ 20 in total per person .
If you apply in person to the Cuban Consulate , you get the visa straight away .
It can also be done through online agencies as mentioned before although they may be slightly more expensive ( normally £ 15 + £ 15 admin fee and additional postage ) .
Germany : You can obtain the tourist card through the Cuban embassy in post .
Travel agencies may often offer cheaper and quicker services though .
Regular tourists who renew their 30 day visa are eligible to depart the country ( to any destination ) and return immediately enjoying a further 60 days ( 30 days plus a 30 day extension ) .
You are only allowed two consecutive stays in this manner .
If you want to stay with friends or family in Cuba you have to go with your intended host within two days after arrival to a migration office and pay 40 CUC for a 30 days family visa .
Citizens of Antigua and Barbuda ( 28 days ) , Barbados ( 28 days ) , Benin , Bosnia and Herzegovina , CIS ( except Ukraine and Uzbekistan ) , Dominica , Grenada ( 60 days ) , Liechtenstein ( 90 days ) , Macedonia , Malaysia ( 90 days ) , Mongolia , Montenegro ( 90 days ) , Namibia , Singapore , Slovakia , Saint Kitts and Nevis , Saint Lucia , Saint Vincent and the Grenadines , Serbia ( 90 days ) , Turkmenistan who can stay 30 days without visa .
( The source of the previous sentence is unknown .
Aeromexico staff at Cancun airport claim that only citizens of China and Russia need no visa .
It is important to note that there is also a departure tax of CUC 25 , to be paid in cash when departing Cuba by airplane ; this is not required for boat departures .
This tax is not well publicized but it is essential to remember it .
You will run into significant difficulties if you do not have enough cash to pay this tax when leaving the country .
An ATM and currency exchange are available at Havana airport , but these facilities are not as reliable in Cuba as in other places .
Cuban customs can be strict , though they sometimes go easy on tourists .
Oversite
“ It does n’t hurt , Gram , ” Renata says .
My sixteen-year-old daughter pulls up her T-shirt sleeve to show her bare arm , the skin summer brown and the muscle swelling slightly into smooth biceps , flawless .
“ I had it done when I was little and see , you ca n’t even tell . ”
My mother is sitting in the little examining room at the assisted living .
Everything is white and hospital-like but there ’s no examining couch .
There ’s just a desk , a little white table with two chairs and a scale .
The doctor , a woman I do n’t know , is sitting in the other chair .
My mother is bewildered , her face turned up towards me .
She ’s got Alzheimer ’s .
“ It ’s okay , Mom , ” I say .
She wants to understand , I can see that .
So I explain again .
“ It ’s an implant that will let them know where you are , and how you are .
It wo n’t hurt . ”
Her eyes water constantly , now .
In the time it takes me to explain she grasps and loses the words , grasps and loses phrases as they go past .
She looks at me and then at Renata , who is smiling , and finally submits uncomprehendingly .
We have worn her down .
The doctor bares my mother ’s arm , where the crepey flesh hangs loosely on the bones .
The doctor swabs her upper arm with antiseptic and says , “ I ’m going to give you something to numb it , okay ? ”
To me the doctor says in her normal voice , “ It ’s just a little lidocaine . ”
I do n’t like the doctor , but I do n’t know why .
She is no-nonsense .
She has professional hair , lightly streaked .
This is no reason to dislike her .
My mother winces at the injection and is surprised again .
She looks up at me , at Renata .
We are smiling , both of us .
“ Okay , ” my mother says .
What is okay ?
I have no idea .
We wait for a few minutes .
My mother says , “ Is it time to go ? ”
“ Not yet , ” I say .
“ They ’re going to give you an injection . ”
“ What ? ” my mother says .
“ They ’re going to implant a chip .
It will help them take care of you . ”
I try to say it every time as if it was the first time I said it .
I do n’t want to embarrass her .
Her head swings around , from Renata to me to the doctor and then back to Renata .
“ It ’s okay , Gram , ” Renata says .
“ Renata , ” my mother says .
The doctor has an injection gun and while my mother is focused on my daughter , she puts it firmly against my mother ’s arm and puts the chip in .
“ Oh ! ” says my mother .
It ’s another low-grade moment of horror , but I think about that particular time with my mother because Renata was there and we were united , she and I .
So that ’s a good memory .
I come back to it a lot .
In the background , shining , is Renata , who is young and healthy and good , raising her arm to show her grandmother that the chip is nothing , nothing at all .
The last two nights I have dreamed of dogs in trouble .
I do n’t dream about Renata , although when the dreams wake me up , it ’s thinking about Renata that keeps me awake .
The first night I dreamed of seeing a stray dog and not stopping to pick it up although it was wandering in an empty parking lot near a busy road .
That was the first night Renata did n’t come home and it does n’t take Freud to figure out what that meant .
Seventeen-year-olds sleep on friends ’ couches , I know .
Or Renata might be sleeping in her car .
The second night I dreamed that I was on a desert island and Sonia , our golden retriever , was with me .
There was some horrible fate impending for Sonia and I had to kill her before something worse happened .
I laid her down on some sticks .
She trusts me , she ’s more my dog than anyone ’s , and she did n’t like it but for me she lay there .
In my dream I told her , “ Stay , Sonia . Stay . ”
She stayed because I held her there by looking at her , the way you can sometimes will a dog into submission .
She stayed while I lit the fire .
And then the horror of it all hit me and I said , “ Sonia , up ! ”
And I woke up .
That was last night , the second night Renata did n’t come home .
Biologist Nick Bos tells Wikinews about ' self-medicating ' ants
Tuesday , September 1 , 2015
Formica fusca , from file .
Image : Mathias Krumbholz .
Nick Bos , of the University of Helsinki , studies " the amazing adaptations social insects have evolved in order to fight the extreme parasite pressure they experience " .
In a recently-accepted Evolution paper Bos and colleagues describe ants appearing to self-medicate .
" I have no doubt that as time goes on , there will be more and more cases documented "
The team used Formica fusca , an ant species that can form thousand-strong colonies .
This common black ant eats other insects , and also aphid honeydew .
It often nests in tree stumps or under rocks and foraging workers can sometimes be spotted climbing trees .
Some ants were infected with Beauveria bassiana , a fungus .
Infected ants chose food laced with toxic hydrogen peroxide , whereas healthy ants avoided it .
Hydrogen peroxide reduced infected ant fatalities by 15 % , and the ants varied their intake depending upon how high the peroxide concentration was .
In the wild , Formica fusca can encounter similar chemicals in aphids and dead ants .
The Independent reported self-medicating ants a first among insects .
Bos obtained his doctorate from the University of Copenhagen .
He began postdoctoral research at Helsinki in 2012 .
He also runs the AntyScience blog .
The blog aims to help address " a gap between scientists and ' the general public ' . "
The name is a pun referencing ants , its primary topic , science , and " non-scientific " jargon-free communication .
He now discusses his work with Wikinews .
Beauveria bassiana on a cicada in Bolivia .
Image : Danny Newman .
What first attracted you to researching ants ?
Me and a studymate were keeping a lot of animals during our studies , from beetles , to butterflies and mantids , to ants .
We had the ants in an observation nest , and I could just look at them for hours , watching them go about .
This was in my third year of Biology study I think .
After a while I needed to start thinking about an internship for my M.Sc. studies , and decided to write a couple of professors .
I ended up going to the Centre for Social Evolution at the University of Copenhagen where I did a project on learning in Ants under supervision of Prof. Patrizia d'Ettorre .
I liked it so much there I ended up doing a PhD and I 've been working on social insects ever since .
What methods and equipment were used for this investigation ?
This is a fun one .
I try to work on a very low budget , and like to build most of the experimental setups myself ( we actually have equipment in the lab nicknamed the ' Nickinator ' , ' i-Nick ' and the ' Nicktendo64 ' ) .
There 's not that much money in fundamental science at the moment , so I try to cut the costs wherever possible .
We collected wild colonies of Formica fusca by searching through old tree-trunks in old logging sites in southern Finland .
We then housed the ants in nests I made using Y-tong [ aerated concrete ] .
It 's very soft stone that you can easily carve .
We carved out little squares for the ants to live in ( covered with old CD covers to prevent them escaping ! ) .
We then drilled a tunnel to a pot ( the foraging arena ) , where the ants got the choice between the food with medicine and the food without .
We infected the ants by preparing a solution of the fungus Beauveria bassiana .
Afterwards , each ant was dipped in the solution for a couple of seconds , dried on a cloth and put in the nest .
After exposing the ants to the fungus , we took pictures of each foraging arena three times per day , and counted how many ants were present on each food-source .
Example of aerated concrete , which provided a home for the subjects .
Image : Marco Bernardini .
This gave us the data that ants choose more medicine after they have been infected .
The result that healthy ants die sooner when ingesting ROS [ Reactive Oxygen Species , the group of chemicals that includes hydrogen peroxide ] but infected ants die less was obtained in another way ( as you have to ' force feed ' the ROS , as healthy ants , when given the choice , ignore that food-source . )
For this we basically put colonies on a diet of either food with medicine or without for a while .
And afterwards either infected them or not . Then for about two weeks we count every day how many ants died .
This gives us the data to do a so-called survival analysis .
We measured the ROS-concentration in the bodies of ants after they ingested the food with the medicine using a spectrophotometer .
By adding certain chemicals , the ROS can be measured using the emission of light of a certain wave-length .
The detrimental effect of ROS on spores was easy to measure .
We mixed different concentrations of ROS with the spores , plated them out on petridishes with an agar-solution where fungus can grow on .
A day after , we counted how many spores were still alive .
How reliable do you consider your results to be ?
The results we got are very reliable .
We had a lot of colonies containing a lot of ants , and wherever possible we conducted the experiment blind .
This means the experimenter does n't know which ants belong to which treatment , so it 's impossible to influence the results with ' observer bias ' .
However , of course this is proof in just one species .
It is hard to extrapolate to other ants , as different species lead very different lives .
How to Ballet Dance
Ballet began in royal courts in the early 1600's , and early forms of this elegant and sophisticated art involved long skirts and wooden clogs .
Dancing ballet is extremely popular throughout the world , and studying ballet can help develop strong bodies , spatial and temporal awareness , and improve coordination .
People who study ballet also retain flexibility throughout their adult lives , making this technique the basis of training for all types of dance .
While dancing ballet takes dedication and requires serious training , you can learn the basics to prepare yourself for further study .
Learn to get ready for practicing , the basic positions , and some of the first techniques you 're likely to encounter in ballet .
Part 1 Getting Ready to Dance
Stretch your muscles thoroughly .
Stretching is important to loosen muscles , strengthen muscles and to elongate your posture .
It is vital that it is done at the beginning of each ballet session , including before a performance .
When taking on ballet , it is important to stretch daily for at least 15 - 30 minutes , to give the muscles ample opportunity to warm up , reducing the risk of injury .
You should also stretch to " wind down " at the end of ballet dancing .
Always wear ballet slippers .
Properly-fitted ballet shoes should be snug , but not so tight they cut off blood flow and create numbness in the feet .
There are different styles and types of shoes , so ask your ballet teacher or a salesman at the store for advice , given your intentions for dancing .
Do n't buy shoes to grow into , because your feet will seem flexed when you pointe and will look flat .
You should fit them to where the drawstring is tied slightly loose .
If your drawstring is longer than your pinkie then you should cut it off till it is roughly the size of your fingernail .
The drawstring just completes the fit .
It is n't made to tighten overly large shoes .
If you ca n't buy ballet shoes , that it is okay .
Use socks without the stickies on the bottom , so you can turn !
Wear comfortable and snug-fitting athletic clothes .
The most important thing is that you are comfortable , and that you 're not wearing baggy or loose fitting clothing so you can make sure you 're forming and moving correctly in the mirror .
A plain black leotard and pink tights are usually a safe bet .
Pink or black ballet slippers are also appropriate .
If you 're signed up for a class , check with your instructor to find out if there is a dress code at the school .
Some schools may have students wear the same thing and others may just require any type of leotard and tights and sometimes ballet skirts .
Mostly they require tight fitting clothing so they can see that your muscles are working properly and so on .
Find an appropriate space to practice .
Ballet is less about learning the moves and more about perfecting them .
The moves themselves are relatively straightforward , but the positing , the timing , and the elegance required takes a lifetime of practice .
For this reason , it 's always better to practice ballet in a ballet studio under the guidance of a good instructor , who will be able to correct your positioning and make sure that you 're dancing properly .
A dancing studio is equipped with mirrors for correcting your positioning and seeing what you 're doing accurately , and a barre for practicing . [ 1 ]
If you want to practice at home , make sure you 've got enough open space to move freely , preferably on a hard wood floor .
The back of a chair can replace the need for a bar .
Position a large mirror so you can check your positioning and see what you 're doing .
Daniel Bernoulli
Daniel Bernoulli FRS ( German pronunciation : [ bɛʁˈnʊli ] ; 8 February 1700 – 17 March 1782 ) was a Swiss mathematician and physicist and was one of the many prominent mathematicians in the Bernoulli family .
He is particularly remembered for his applications of mathematics to mechanics , especially fluid mechanics , and for his pioneering work in probability and statistics .
His name is commemorated in the Bernoulli 's principle , a particular example of the conservation of energy , which describes the mathematics of the mechanism underlying the operation of two important technologies of the 20th century : the carburetor and the airplane wing .
Daniel Bernoulli
Early life
Frontpage of Hydrodynamica ( 1738 )
Daniel Bernoulli was born in Groningen , in the Netherlands , into a family of distinguished mathematicians .
The Bernoulli family came originally from Antwerp , at that time in the Spanish Netherlands , but emigrated to escape the Spanish persecution of the Huguenots .
After a brief period in Frankfurt the family moved to Basel , in Switzerland .
Daniel was a son of Johann Bernoulli ( one of the " early developers " of calculus ) and a nephew of Jacob Bernoulli ( who " was the first to discover the theory of probability " ) .
He had two brothers , Niklaus and Johann II .
Daniel Bernoulli was described by W. W. Rouse Ball as " by far the ablest of the younger Bernoullis " .
He is said to have had a bad relationship with his father .
Upon both of them entering and tying for first place in a scientific contest at the University of Paris , Johann , unable to bear the " shame " of being compared Daniel 's equal , banned Daniel from his house .
Johann Bernoulli also plagiarized some key ideas from Daniel 's book Hydrodynamica in his own book Hydraulica which he backdated to before Hydrodynamica .
Despite Daniel 's attempts at reconciliation , his father carried the grudge until his death .
Around schooling age , his father , Johann , encouraged him to study business , there being poor rewards awaiting a mathematician .
However , Daniel refused , because he wanted to study mathematics .
He later gave in to his father 's wish and studied business .
His father then asked him to study in medicine , and Daniel agreed under the condition that his father would teach him mathematics privately , which they continued for some time .
Daniel studied medicine at Basel , Heidelberg , and Strasbourg , and earned a PhD in anatomy and botany in 1721 .
He was a contemporary and close friend of Leonhard Euler .
He went to St. Petersburg in 1724 as professor of mathematics , but was very unhappy there , and a temporary illness in 1733 gave him an excuse for leaving St. Petersburg .
He returned to the University of Basel , where he successively held the chairs of medicine , metaphysics , and natural philosophy until his death .
In May , 1750 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society .
Mathematical work
His earliest mathematical work was the Exercitationes ( Mathematical Exercises ) , published in 1724 with the help of Goldbach .
Two years later he pointed out for the first time the frequent desirability of resolving a compound motion into motions of translation and motion of rotation .
His chief work is Hydrodynamica , published in 1738 ;
it resembles Joseph Louis Lagrange 's Mécanique Analytique in being arranged so that all the results are consequences of a single principle , namely , conservation of energy .
This was followed by a memoir on the theory of the tides , to which , conjointly with the memoirs by Euler and Colin Maclaurin , a prize was awarded by the French Academy : these three memoirs contain all that was done on this subject between the publication of Isaac Newton 's Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica and the investigations of Pierre-Simon Laplace .
Bernoulli also wrote a large number of papers on various mechanical questions , especially on problems connected with vibrating strings , and the solutions given by Brook Taylor and by Jean le Rond d'Alembert .
Together Bernoulli and Euler tried to discover more about the flow of fluids .
In particular , they wanted to know about the relationship between the speed at which blood flows and its pressure .
To investigate this , Daniel experimented by puncturing the wall of a pipe with a small open ended straw and noted that the height to which the fluid rose up the straw was related to fluid 's pressure in the pipe .
Soon physicians all over Europe were measuring patients ' blood pressure by sticking point-ended glass tubes directly into their arteries .
It was not until about 170 years later , in 1896 that an Italian doctor discovered a less painful method which is still in use today .
However , Bernoulli 's method of measuring pressure is still used today in modern aircraft to measure the speed of the air passing the plane ; that is its air speed .
Taking his discoveries further , Daniel Bernoulli now returned to his earlier work on Conservation of Energy .
It was known that a moving body exchanges its kinetic energy for potential energy when it gains height .
Daniel realised that in a similar way , a moving fluid exchanges its kinetic energy for pressure .
Mathematically this law is now written : ½ ρ u 2 + P = constant where P is pressure , ρ is the density of the fluid and u is its velocity .
A consequence of this law is that if the velocity increases then the pressure falls .
This is exploited by the wing of an aeroplane which is designed to create an area above its surface where the air velocity increases .
The pressure in this area is lower than that under the wing , so the wing is pushed upwards by the relatively higher pressure under the wing .
Hackers attack Church of Scientology website
Sunday , January 20 , 2008
Wikinews has learned that according to an Internet posting made just over 24 hours ago , the Church of Scientology 's website is being attacked by hackers , causing the site to shut down .
The attack was launched on Wednesday by a user labelled " Anonymous " , on the website " Insurgency Wiki " , a spinoff of 4chan .
The " History " section of the site explains , in a satirical fashion , that the incident was prompted by the Church of Scientology 's attempts to remove a promotional video featuring Scientologist Tom Cruise from YouTube .
Though YouTube is complying with the Church of Scientology 's requests to take down the video , other sites such as Gawker.com have stated that they will keep hosting the video .
" So far , it 's the Internet : 1 , Scientology : 0 . But it 's a long game . " - Matthew Ingram
Writing in a blog post , Matthew Ingram of The Globe and Mail dubbed the ongoing conflict involving the Church of Scientology 's attempts to remove the Cruise video from the Internet : " Scientology vs. the Internet , part XVII " .
He characterized the conflict between the Church of Scientology and anonymous posters of the Cruise video as " another small skirmish in a war that Scientology has been waging for almost 15 years , since the early days of newsgroups such as alt.religion.scientology , which posted internal church documents in 1994 .
Lawsuits have been filed , mailing lists have been shut down , homes of discussion group participants have been raided and their computers seized -- an all-out war . "
" Prompted I think by the Tom Cruise video , a new obsession is taking hold on the internet . An insurgency against The Church of Scientology . " Anonymous blogger , " Anon declares war on Church of Scientology "
One poster admitted to being a part of the effort , writing in a blog post " I have myself , as per instructions , loaded up Gigaloader and started bombarding the Scientology homepage .
There s [ sic ] something in the hilarious anarchy of the net that produces these ' events ' every now and again . "
The poster wrote that " Prompted I think by the Tom Cruise video , a new obsession is taking hold on the internet .
An insurgency against The Church of Scientology . "
" Someone emailed me earlier today talking about a tool a group ’s been using to attack the scientology website .
It ’s an interesting tool , created to overload/create malformed strings and crash a website ’s database , " said the post by an unknown author on pigmy .
The Church 's website is currently unreachable .
Some individuals reported that when they are able to reach the site , all they get is a message stating , " The word scientology means search for truth ... " .
As of 15:11 GMT the site was accessible again , but only loads at relatively slow speeds , and by the end of the day Saturday the site was not loading at all .
Posts on the message board for the Scientology-critic site Operation Clambake from Friday theorized that a denial-of-service attack had occurred , and wrote that as of Friday the Scientology.org site was either not loading at all , or loading very slowly .
Critics of Scientology at the Internet newsgroup alt.religion.scientology were critical of the attacks to the Church of Scientology website , with one poster writing " How can people look at both sides if one side is gone ? "
Traffic to the Scientology website had already increased 18-fold prior to the attack , following increased attention after the Tom Cruise video appeared on the Internet .
At that time , one in three visits to the site came from BBC News , and the website increased to number 3 in the company Hitwise UK 's Lifestyle-Religion category .
Scientists analyse effects of global warming , atmospheric ozone on crops
Monday , July 28 , 2014
A research team from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Colorado State University of the US and the University of Sheffield of the UK has analysed effects of global warming and ozone pollution over 2000 - 2050 on the worldwide production of wheat , rice , maize and soybean .
The study was published in journal Nature Climate Change yesterday .
The scientists found reduction of crop yields by 2050 exceeded 10 % of 2000 levels , substantially decreasing food security , in all cases examined .
Several scenarios were considered because of uncertainty of future levels of ozone pollution .
They estimated by 2050 , increasing population and changing diet would increase world food needs by 50 percent .
As coauthor Colette Heald told The Huffington Post , " The climate projections are quite consistent [...]
the future of ozone pollution is very different [...] leading to either offsetting or reinforcing effects [ of climate change ] on crops " .
By 2050 , undernourishment would increase by either 49 percent or by 27 percent , depending on the scenario .
The study focuses on ozone-temperature covariation : ground-level ozone increases with temperatures .
Heald said although temperature and ozone are separately known to impact crop yields , " nobody has looked at these together " .
Depending on region and crops , the yields may be primarily sensitive to ozone - in the case of wheat - or heat - in the case of maize - alone , providing a local estimation of relative benefits of climate change adaptation versus ozone regulation .
The U.S. Department of Agriculture notes , " Ground-level ozone causes more damage to plants than all other air pollutants combined " , highlighting the importance of air quality for agriculture .
Results of NCLAN studies , published in a paper by AS Heagle in 1989 , show dicot species , such as soybean , cotton , and peanut , lose more yield from ozone than do monocot species such as sorghum , field corn , and winter wheat .
The researchers found that ozone pollution caused 46 percent of previously heat-attributed damage to soybean crops .
The model does not include the effect of rising carbon dioxide concentration , which has complex and potentially offsetting impacts on global food supply .
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency says some crops may have higher yields with increased levels of carbon dioxide .
However , global warming also increases probability of extreme crops-damaging weather events such as floods , droughts , and extreme temperatures .
Climate change affects distribution of weeds , pests , and diseases .
Heald noted the findings show pollution reduction is also important .
" An air-quality cleanup would improve crop yields [...]
Ozone is something that we understand the causes of , and the steps that need to be taken to improve air quality . "
As Heald told The Huffington Post , US surface ozone has dropped partly due to the Clean Air Act .
" Despite an increase in vehicle miles driven and energy consumption , surface ozone has declined by 25 percent on average across the U.S. from 1980 to 2012 [...]
However , the future of ozone air quality in the U.S. and around the world will depend on local emissions , the use of pollution control technology , regulations , and air quality policy . "
The study was supported by the Croucher Foundation , US National Science Foundation , and US National Park Service .
Otto Jespersen
Jens Otto Harry Jespersen or Otto Jespersen ( Danish : [ ʌtˢo ˈjɛsb̥ɐsn̩ ] ; 16 July 1860 – 30 April 1943 ) was a Danish linguist who specialized in the grammar of the English language .
Early life
Otto Jespersen was born in Randers in Jutland .
He was inspired by the work of Danish philologist Rasmus Rask as a boy , and with the help of Rask 's grammars taught himself some Icelandic , Italian , and Spanish .
He entered the University of Copenhagen in 1877 when he was 17 , initially studying law but not forgetting his language studies .
In 1881 he shifted his focus completely to languages , and in 1887 earned his master 's degree in French , with English and Latin as his secondary languages .
He supported himself during his studies through part-time work as a schoolteacher and as a shorthand reporter in the Danish parliament .
In 1887 – 1888 , he traveled to England , Germany and France , meeting linguists like Henry Sweet and Paul Passy and attending lectures at institutions like Oxford University .
Following the advice of his mentor Vilhelm Thomsen , he returned to Copenhagen in August 1888 and began work on his doctoral dissertation on the English case system .
He successfully defended his dissertation in 1891 .
Academic life and work
Jespersen was a professor of English at the University of Copenhagen from 1893 to 1925 , and served as Rector of the university in 1920 – 21 .
His early work focused primarily on language teaching reform and on phonetics , but he is best known for his later work on syntax and on language development .
He advanced the theories of Rank and Nexus in Danish in two papers : Sprogets logik ( 1913 ) and De to hovedarter af grammatiske forbindelser ( 1921 ) .
Jespersen in this theory of ranks removes the parts of speech from the syntax , and differentiates between primaries , secondaries , and tertiaries ; e.g. in " well honed phrase , " " phrase " is a primary , this being defined by a secondary , " honed " , which again is defined by a tertiary " well " .
The term Nexus is applied to sentences , structures similar to sentences and sentences in formation , in which two concepts are expressed in one unit ; e.g. , it rained , he ran indoors .
This term is qualified by a further concept called a junction which represents one idea , expressed by means of two or more elements , whereas a nexus combines two ideas .
Junction and nexus proved valuable in bringing the concept of context to the forefront of the attention of the world of linguistics .
He was most widely recognized for some of his books .
Language : Its Nature , Development and Origin ( 1922 ) is considered by many to be his masterpiece .
Modern English Grammar on Historical Principles ( 1909 – 1949 ) , concentrated on morphology and syntax , and Growth and Structure of the English Language ( 1905 ) is a comprehensive view of English by someone with another native language , and still in print , over 70 years after his death and more than 100 years after publication .
Late in his life he published Analytic Syntax ( 1937 ) , in which he presents his views on syntactic structure using an idiosyncratic shorthand notation .
In The Philosophy of Grammar ( 1924 ) he challenged the accepted views of common concepts in Grammar and proposed corrections to the basic definitions of grammatical case , pronoun , object , voice etc. , and developed further his notions of Rank and Nexus .
In the 21st century this book is still used as one of the basic texts in modern Structural linguistics .
Mankind , Nation and Individual : from a linguistic point of view ( 1925 ) is one of the pioneering works on Sociolinguistics .
Jespersen visited the United States twice :
he lectured at the Congress of Arts and Sciences in St. Louis in 1904 , and in 1909 – 1910 he visited both the University of California and Columbia University .
While in the U.S. , he took occasion to study the country 's educational system .
His autobiography ( see below ) was published in English translation as recently as 1995 .
Jespersen was a proponent of phonosemanticism and wrote :
“ Is there really much more logic in the opposite extreme which denies any kind of sound symbolism ( apart from the small class of evident echoisms and ‘ onomatopoeia ’ ) and sees in our words only a collection of accidental and irrational associations of sound and meaning ? ...
There is no denying that there are words which we feel instinctively to be adequate to express the ideas they stand for . ”
After his retirement in 1925 , Jespersen remained active in the international linguistic community .
In addition to continuing to write , he convened and chaired the first International Meeting on Linguistic Research in Geneva in 1930 , and acted as president of the Fourth International Congress of Linguists in Copenhagen in 1936 .
Jespersen was an important figure in the international language movement .
He was an early supporter of the Esperanto offshoot Ido and in 1927 published his own project Novial .
He also worked with the International Auxiliary Language Association .
Jespersen received honorary degrees from Columbia University in New York ( 1910 ) , St. Andrews University in Scotland ( 1925 ) , and the Sorbonne in Paris ( 1927 ) .
He was one of the first six international scholars to be elected as honorary members of the Linguistic Society of America .
Does n’t it make you just want to sneeze ?
Pete was leaning against the wall , watching the street go by .
I pulled the bike to a halt , the front wheel pointing in his direction .
“ I think I ’ve got a fairy stuck up my nose . ”
“ S’ not true ! ” came a voice from inside the nose in question .
“ Hey ! Not bad that ! ” Pete said .
“ I did n’t see your lips move at all . ”
“ It ’s not a joke . ”
The itching was getting worse .
I pulled out a paper tissue .
“ Stop that now ! ” came the voice again .
“ You know I do n’t like it . ”
“ S’ not my fault .
You make me want to sneeze ! ”
And I did .
I inspected the crumpled paper .
Lots of yellow goo , but no fairy .
Pete looked at me with mild disgust as I eyed the handkerchief more closely .
“ You know that ’s pretty gross … ” he said .
“ Got any other brilliant remarks ? ” I said .
I held a finger up to my lips , and waved a hand to silence Pete ’s reply .
“ Are you still there ? ” I called .
“ No thanks to you ! ” came the little voice .
Pete looked at me sort of sideways .
“ Look , the first time was OK , but — ”
“ It ’s not a joke .
I ’ve really got something stuck up there .
I was riding on me bike and I thought I ’d swallowed an insect or something .
And then it started insulting me . ”
“ You ’re having me on , right ? ”
“ Pete !
Look at me .
If it ’s a trick , how do I do it then ? ”
Pete thought for a moment .
“ If it ’s real … Are n’t they supposed to have a pot of gold or something ?
And they have to tell you where it is if you catch them ? ”
“ That ’s leprechauns , idiot ! ” said the voice from my noise .
“ So what ’s the difference ?
Just give us the gold and we ’ll let you go … ”
“ We — ? ” I started .
He winked at me .
“ Oh , I ’m happy to stick around , ” came the voice .
“ It ’s noggins here who wants to get rid of me … ”
Suddenly I felt a violent pain in my nose , my eyes watered .
“ Owwww ! ” I howled .
“ See what I mean ? ” the voice shouted over my moans .
“ Perhaps you can use it in exams … ” Pete said , scratching his head .
“ You know , it could tell us all the answers . ”
“ Idiot !
If it yacks on like that in an exam , I ’ll get thrown out .
And probably locked up too . ”
“ Ca n’t it whisper ? ”
“ Perhaps I do n’t know the answers anyway ? ” said the voice .
“ Have you thought of that ? ”
“ Anyway , I do n’t want it in exams .
I just want it to go .
Out of my nose . ”
“ Ca n’t you just poke it out ? ”
“ With what ? ”
“ S’pose you ’ve already tried your finger … ”
“ Yes he has , ” the voice said .
“ And it was n’t pleasant I can tell you . ”
“ You see what it ’s like .
He ’s already making sarcastic remarks like that … ”
“ What if we put something in your nose to catch it , then ?
I do n’t know … A spider ? ”
“ No ! ” we both said at once .
“ Snap ! ” Pete said .
“ You both said the same thing at the same time , you ’ve got to make a — ” He hit his forehead with his palm .
“ That ’s it !
Three wishes !
When you catch a fairy , you get three wishes .
Hey you in there !
Is that right ? ”
“ You could see things like that … ” said the voice with resignation .
“ I wish you ’d get out of my nose , then ! ” I cried .
In a flash the fairy was out of my nose and gone .
And I ’m still waiting for my two other wishes .
THE END
Something a little lighter this week , I hope you enjoy it .
Once it got started , I realised that the idea must have been inspired by the title of Justine Larbalestier ’s How to Ditch Your Fairy , although it has nothing at all to do with that story at all .
All in all , my story feels very light .
But I think I needed something a little less dark , and there are some quite sombre tales coming up in the coming weeks .
See you then .
Sensitive Canadian document found on rainy streets
Friday , August 15 , 2008
A sensitive Environment Canada document was found wet on an Ottawa street by someone who gave it to the CBC today .
The 131-page document was found on Castlefrank Road in Kanata , Ontario in a rain-stained , tire-marked brown envelope by a passerby .
The document which had the stamp Protected B on every page detailed various security vulnerabilities of the NEMISIS database which is used by officers to track and prosecute environmental law-breakers .
If someone were able to shut the system down , or hack inside and delete or corrupt the information , it could affect the prosecution of the lawbreakers .
The database was unveiled in 1999 as the National Enforcement Management Information System and Intelligence System .
However , on the document , it referred to the database as National Enforcement and Emergency Management Information System and Intelligence System , adding the words " and Emergency " to the name .
Protection B documents are the second lowest grade of classified government documents .
Environment Canada spokesperson Julie Hahn said they apply to letters of complaint , criticism or injury , research or scientific notes and findings that do n`t have any conclusion , and Treasury Board letters , agendas and minutes that do n`t deal with subjects of national interest .
Environment Minister John Baird has asked government officials how such documents that are supposed to be stored in " approved security cabinets " wound up on the street .
" I 'm told two things : that it 's neither classified nor secret and that it 's stuff that could be available under access to information , " Baird said .
Environment Canada spokeswoman Sujata Raisinghani told CBC News the department will look into the incident .
" We take document security seriously , " she said , but refused to give any more details about how the papers came to be on a road .
Paul Dewar , an Ottawa New Democrat MP , said the combined security lapses raise serious questions about the government 's ability to secure sensitive documents .
Dewar says that bureaucrats of the Conservative government have complained to him about document security to the point that they ca n`t share the information with their own colleagues .
However , when a government document has been found on the streets , the government then says it was n't particularly sensitive .
" This government is so consumed with control of information and secrecy yet they do n't seem to be able to get the fundamentals right , " Dewar said .
The incident is a reminiscent of two other incidents .
In March , a bundle of blueprints for a new headquarters for the military 's counterterrorism unit were found stuffed in the trash on a downtown street .
In May , Maxime Bernier was forced to resign as Foreign Affairs minister after it became known that he left sensitive documents at the apartment of his then-girlfriend Julie Couillard who had ties to the Hells Angels biker gang .
Sources
" Sensitive government document found on rainy Ottawa street " — CBC.ca , August 15 , 2008
" Document found on street not secret , say feds " — The Canadian Press , August 15 , 2008
" Environment Canada security report found on street " — Toronto Star , August 15 , 2008
Peter Zimonjic .
" MP calls for probe into misplaced documents " — Edmonton Sun , August 16 , 2008
Categories :
August 15 , 2008
Canada
Published
North America
Politics and conflicts
Environment Canada
Archived
Łódź
Łódź ( Pronounced : Wootch ) is Poland 's third biggest city , and the capital of the Łódzkie Voivodship .
Unlike most other large Polish cities , which have long histories , Łódź was created almost from scratch during the 19th century textile industry boom to house textile mills , their owners and their workers , and rapidly grew to become an important industrial and commerce centre .
In recent years , Łódź has been battling rising unemployment and youth migration resulting from the failing textile industry and is repositioning itself as a hub for design and creative industries .
Owing to its history , Łódź has an impressive collection of residential , commercial and industrial 19th-century architecture including some of Europe 's largest factory buildings , now mostly repurposed as shopping centres or lofts .
Recent local investment and a long-standing cultural scene ensures there is always something more to do than just sightseeing or shopping , with the city hosting some of the best museums and art galleries in the country .
The close proximity of Warsaw and Łódź 's location at the crossroads of the Polish motorway system make it an ideal destination for a day trip or longer city break .
Understand
Historic fire station in Księży Młyn area
Name and history
The origin of the city 's name is unknown , however , the word łódź translates to " boat " in English .
This is referred to in the emblem and when you hear the dwellers of Łódź ( łodzianin ( man ) łodzianka ( woman ) łodzianie ( plural ) ) calling themselves " the boat people " .
A settlement on the area of present-day Łódź was established in the 14th century and in 1423 it was granted a town charter , along with the right to have a marketplace .
However , the real development of Łódź started with the industrial era at the beginning of the 19th century when the city was chosen to be the heart of the rapidly-growing textile industry .
The population of Łódź soared from some 4,000 people in the 1830s and 40,000 in 1865 to over 300,000 inhabitants at the turn of the century , which was an unprecedented growth on a worldwide scale .
The rapid development of Łódź in the second half of the 19th century was brought about by the rise of enormous industrialist fortunes .
New inhabitants , craftsmen and merchants came to Łódź ; markets and town fairs came to life .
The profits obtained from prosperous textile mills opened up practically unlimited possibilities for their owners .
The city residences became expressions of the riches and power of the local tycoons .
They were usually situated next to the owner 's factory .
Ever since the industrial revolution brought a massive influx of workforce , Łódź had been a city almost equally divided between four cultures - Polish , Jewish , German and Russian .
The day before the outbreak of World War II , Łódź was inhabited by approximately 672,000 people , among whom 35 % were of Jewish faith and some 15 % were ethnic German .
Andrzej Wajda 's movie , Promised Land based on a novel by the Nobel laureate Władysław Reymont , depicts those times and is a worthwhile introduction to the city 's bustling history .
During the Nazi occupation , Łódź was incorporated directly into the Third Reich .
The city was renamed to Litzmannstadt , and Piotrkowska Street was called Adolf-Hitler-Strasse .
The Jewish community was practically wiped out , and many others lost their lives .
Although the city was not destroyed in the aftermath , the material losses were serious as the machinery , raw materials and finished goods were taken away by the fleeing Nazis .
The day before the liberation , about 80,000 Germans left Łódź in panic .
At the beginning of 1945 , the population was estimated at 300,000 .
Plac Wolności
Łódź today
Since the fall of communism in Poland , Łódź has not enjoyed the rapid economic growth cities like Kraków , Warsaw and Wrocław have experienced , and has had to endure the fall of much of its textile industry , rising unemployment and emigration ( within Poland and abroad ) .
This led to further dilapidation of the investment-starved city , and many of its streets and buildings show profound signs of neglect .
At first glance , for a city of 760,000 and agglomeration of 1.428,000 , there does not seem to be much to see .
However , the situation is rapidly changing now with Łódź campaigning and redesigning itself as an up-and-coming destination .
To accomplish this , Łódź has been capitalizing on its film history - Łódź is jokingly referred to as the " HollyŁódź " of Poland and hosts several film festivals and many other cultural events .
Łódź today may not have the glitz and glamour of its heyday ; however , there is a certain charm to Łódź in its partially renovated façades and leitmotivs , not to mention its grand artistic traditions .
Wikinews interviews meteorological experts on Cyclone Phalin
File photo of interviewee David Titley .
Image : David Titley .
Cyclone Phailin has winds that have been measured at 200 km / h , as it surges over land will it begin to lose strength ?
Yes , all tropical cyclones are driven by high heat content waters .
Once a storm moves over any appreciably sized piece of land , the moisture source is removed and the storm begins to dissipate .
As of the last advisory , T C Phailin has winds of 190 kilometers per hour and has moved inland , headed on a northwest track .
That is a Category 3 storm .
The forecast is for a continued decline in strength to a tropical storm within 24 hours and a tropical depression within 36 hours .
However , there will be very heavy rains and flooding along its path .
Yes , it will loose strength steadily as more and more of this swirling system moves from being over ocean to being over land .
This occurs for two reasons :
As it moves over land , it is cut off from the source of energy driving the storm [ which is ] the evaporation of water from the warm sea surface ;
Increased friction - the ocean surface is much , much smoother than the land surface .
Tropical cyclones are sustained by a form of energy called latent heat , which is released by moisture evaporated from the ocean that condenses to form rain .
As tropical cyclones make landfall , this energy source is cut-off and they rapidly lose strength as they move over land .
Yes , the Cyclone is almost certain to lose strength as it surges over land .
Cyclones gather their strength through scraping moisture and heat from warm ocean water that it is not the case over land .
In the mean time , much stronger friction over land quickly reduces their strength .
Yes .
All tropical cyclones lose strength once they make landfall .
However , they can remain dangerous storms due to very heavy rains and subsequent landslides , and river flooding .
Phailin 's winds will rapidly weaken as it pushes inland .
Once Cyclone Phailin comes on shore it will immediately begin to lose strength .
However , and this is important , it still will contain lots of rainfall making flooding an almost certainty .
File photo of interviewee R Saravanan .
Image : R Saravanan .
A previous cyclone in 1999 in the Bay of Bengal area of India left 10,000 people dead .
Is the Indian government well prepared to deal with this cyclone ?
I have not followed that aspect of the societal response for the present storm .
However , historically , there have been several events that should cause a societal response .
Hopefully , we all learn from past mistakes .
The history of strong cyclones and death in the region is notable , with at least 5 large cyclone events in the past 35 years with 10,000 and as many as 300,000 people killed , millions left homeless and estimated damages as high as US$ 10 billion .
I do n't have enough information to answer this question , one way or the other .
From all the press reports that I have read , the Indian government appears to have taken the threat of Cyclone Phailin very seriously indeed .
The government has been much more pro-active in preparing for this cyclone than in the past .
The forecasts of cyclone track and intensity have been fairly accurate .
Mandatory mass evacuations have been carried out , which is essential to minimize loss of life in these situations .
Unfortunately , extensive property damage is bound to occur even with the best preparation .
My knowledge of the responsiveness of the Indian government to this storm is purely from the cyber space .
I heard that they orchestrated the largest people evacuation to a natural disaster in Indian history .
This shall be applauded given the size and strength of Phailin .
I visited the damaged area of the 1999 storm near Bhubaneshwar in the summer of 2012 for an invited symposium and summer school on tropical cyclones [ ... ] sponsored by the Indian government .
Given the living standard and residence of people living near the coastal areas in this region , the evacuation is certainly necessary and essential to save lives .
I cannot comment directly on how the Indian government was prepared for this cyclone .
However , the news reports ( BBC etc. ) were very encouraging in that the authorities were reportedly making strenuous efforts to evacuate the population from near the coast and areas that are prone to flooding .
Water is the main killer in these storms .
From all reports that I have seen , the government was well prepared for this cyclone .
For this question I do n't know the ' preparedness ' of the Indian gov't to deal with this .
Wikinews interviews Israeli mathematician and writer Aner Shalev
Wednesday , September 19 , 2007
Aner Shalev is an Israeli mathematician and writer born in 1958 in Kibbutz Kinneret , Tiberias .
Currently Shalev is a Professor at Hebrew University of Jerusalem 's Einstein Institute of Mathematics .
At the moment Shalev is in Levico Terme , Trento , Italy for a conference .
He was interviewed by Wikinews .
Interview
Aner Shalev
What are you going to talk about here in Levico ?
I called it Character , walks and words .
There is a whole topic which is called asymptotic groups theory .
There are groups which express the symmetry of some structures .
Studying groups is a bit like studying symmetry .
It 's very beautiful I think .
And then when you do it in an asymptotic way is like you do n't look at the small details .
It 's like from the sky .
You look at the general patterns .
And there is another topic which is very important in mathematics which is called representation theory .
So I will mainly talk about how to use a representation theory to solve all kind of problems and conjectures in asymptotic groups theory .
Why did you choose to study mathematics ?
First of all because it was beautiful .
When I was ten my father already showed me some stuff in mathematics and the beauty and the imagination was quite apparent .
I also like the freedom in mathematics .
If you study physics or chemistry then you should describe the real world .
But in mathematics you can build your own structures .
You can walk in worlds created by the imagination of people .
You 're not committed to the real world .
It 's almost like God to some extent .
You can create worlds , you can study them .
I think it 's a combination of the beauty , of the imagination , of the freedom .
Many people , and many students , dislike math .
Why do you think it is so ?
First of all I think maybe they have bad teachers , which is a problem .
You have to have very good teachers in mathematics if you really want to enjoy and to succeed in it .
Probably some people mainly think about the scientific part of it – you have to be accurate - and they see less these elements of the freedom , and the imagination , and creation .
Maybe they do n't like the precise nature of mathematics .
Also when I talk mathematics I notice the language is very important in mathematics and I actually notice that many times people fail in mathematics because they do n't know how to write a composition .
They have ideas but they can not formulate them in the right way .
Actually I find many connections between mathematics and literature because almost all the thing I told about mathematics are also seen in literature and in writing because when you write you can describe the real world , but you can also create worlds of fiction .
So you have imagination , you have total freedom , you can invent characters , you can invent all kind of development and surprises and this kind of end of story or another .
Also the language is important in writing and in literature .
So in a way people often do n't know how to combine the two fields .
It could look like almost the opposite : literature is kind of arts and mathematics is science but they also see a lot in common and there where mathematician who were writers .
For example the most famous is Lewis Carrol , author of Alice in Wonderland .
You 're not only a mathematician .
You also wrote two collections of short stories and a novel .
Why did you begin to write ?
When I was quite young I was interested in psychoanalysis and in dreams .
I was trying to interpret my dreams .
I started to write down my dreams .
And then I noticed that I cheat a little bit when I write them down .
Sometimes I make them more pretty then they were actually .
So instead of documenting the dreams it gradually became also like adding creational elements , and I think that somehow through writing my dreams I gradually came to writing , also poems , but mainly stories .
I 'm a little bit inspired by dreams but when eventually I started to write more seriously I was more interested in structure which also .. a bit like mathematics in a way .. for example my first book is called Opus 1 .. a collection of four long stories with musical structures .
The first part is called Legato and the second part was called Staccato .
In the legato part the sentences are very long and without breaks almost like stream of consciousness .
In the staccato part it 's like a music : a lot of break , very very short sentences .
It was a bit experimenting connections between the language and the music and the psychology of people .
In the second book I made another experiment .
It 's a book of opening , Overtures I called it , and there is no end to the stories .
There are seventy beginning of stories without ends .
In the novel Dark Matters I think what interested me in the structure was two thing : simple narrative and email .
It keeps changing between narrative and email .
Another thing was two different time scapes : one goes very slow and one goes very fast and they almost kind of meet in the end .
It 's a little bit like Achilles and the turtle .
... love story and romance and surprises and tragedies and all this but also this structure interested me a lot .
Why did you choose this particular structure ?
When I tell stories I do n't like that everything will be clear from the beginning .
I like that something will be a bit of secret , or even unreliable narrator : someone tells something and first you trust him but then you read more and you become thrilled by everything .
I think by using emails on the one hand which are more the voice of the woman Eva and narrative which is more the perspective of the man Adam , I kind of confront them , their different perspective and then kind somehow you can see the distortions in the way the story is told .
I think that in this kind of structure there is a very gradual clarification of the relationship and the forth going on .
The future of the peace process in Israel
" The future is only peace . The problem is how long will it take and how many victims will it call for . "
Shimon Peres image : David Shankbone .
Mr. President , as a Nobel Peace Prize recipient and as one of the fathers of the modern peace process in Israel , do you still think that there is a future to the peace process ?
The future is only peace .
The problem is how long will it take and how many victims will it call for .
Why do I say peace ?
Because when you look historically , at the development of humanity , most of our lives we are living on the land .
The history is written with red ink .
The reason for it is because people were fighting for our land , either defending it or extending it , because that was the main source .
The land , the natural resources , the markets , all these go together .
The minute the land was replaced by science , what is there to fight about ?
Armies cannot conquer science .
Customs cannot check what a scientist has in his mind , they can see what he has in his pocket but not what he has in his mind so it ’s uncontrolled ; it means that borders are n’t important and distances are n’t important .
How do you approach the difficult challenge of talking to the Palestinians when , in the end , they do n’t want Israel to exist .
How do you come to an understanding to make peace possible ?
Well , what is the problem ?
I mean , is the problem national , say between Jews and Arabs ; or is it a matter of generations between an old age and a new age ?
You see , the terrorists are protesting against modernity .
They think that modernity may endanger their tradition .
They are simply afraid and hate modernity .
They consider modernity as their enemy , but then they have two problems .
First of all , can they exist on tradition ?
They cannot .
Sooner or later they will have to enter the new age .
All the talks about nationalities , etcetera , well , the new age has very little patience for history .
History is becoming more and more irrelevant .
How do you feel about that ?
Well , I distinguish between two histories , the spiritual and the material .
Or the history of events and the history of values .
The history of values is okay because wisdom is ageless ; it does n’t grow old , like material .
But events are totally unimportant for 2 reasons .
First , the event is unimportant .
Tell me , what events is today important such as how many elephants Hannibal had on the Alps , when you can have helicopters ?
Why should I bother my children with all this nonsense ?
What sort of a nose did Cleopatra have ?
God , I do n’t know !
You can invite people to war over noses , but nobody will go to fight for noses any more .
On the other hand , there are already machines that can replace our memory .
Why should I bother my child with memory when he can buy a computer that will remember everything you asked him to remember ?
The waning importance of history
Is n’t the answer to that question that wise decisions are made with a basis from memory ?
Although a computer can have …
No , no .
Forget memory .
Look , the new age is unprecedented .
When something is unprecedented , it means it does n’t have a past , does n’t have a history .
It ’s totally oriented on the future .
And whoever dwells in the past , does n’t understand the future because the past is full of prejudices , of commitments .
It arrests us .
And then you say you wo n’t commit a mistake , so you ’ll commit new mistakes .
It does n’t matter .
`` I say brains is the greater producer of wealth , not oil .
It ’s limitless , and you ’ll see that the GNP of Israel is very close to the Saudis ’ .
So they are 3 times larger than us and they have all the oil in the world .
We have brains . "
— Peres , on whether the Arab states ' oil wealth will eclipse Israel 's prominence in the region .
What about the adage , “ Those who forget history are doomed to repeat it ” ?
So they will make new mistakes .
Mistake is inevitable as long as there are human beings .
But you cannot repeat mistakes because the world is not built on repetition ; it ’s built on mutation .
Do n’t you think Darfur is repetition ?
I think Darfur is , again , the last , or among the last battles between old and new .
What are they fighting for ?
What are they killing killing killing over ?
They do n’t carry futures .
It ’s not a mistake .
It belongs to a past .
It does n’t have a moment .
I am sure that the reasons for war are over , even though still there are wars which are an inertia from the past , a continuation that does n’t make sense .
I ’m answering your question .
The problem is how to enable the whole world to enter the new future , including the Arabs .
And there are already Arabs who did it .
Look at Turkey , who is knocking on the doors of the united Europe .
Why ?
It ’s not a geographic endeavor , it is an intellectual endeavor .
They say you can be Muslim and modern .
The prevalence of discrimination across racial groups in contemporary America :
Results from a nationally representative sample of adults
Introduction .
Personal experiences of discrimination and bias have been the focus of much social science research . [ 1 - 3 ]
Sociologists have explored the adverse consequences of discrimination [ 3 – 5 ] ;
psychologists have examined the mental processes that underpin conscious and unconscious biases [ 6 ] ;
neuroscientists have examined the neurobiological underpinnings of discrimination [ 7 – 9 ] ;
and evolutionary theorists have explored the various ways that in-group / out-group biases emerged across the history of our species . [ 10 ]
In many respects , researchers already possess a wealth of knowledge concerning the origins and consequences of discrimination and bias . [ 11 ]
What also should not be lost in discussion of discrimination is the growing push to implement social policy aimed at reducing the occurrence of discriminatory practices .
Mandatory diversity trainings in professional settings , for example , are intended to reduce bias in the workplace by increasing the awareness of employees regarding the challenges facing minority group members . [ 12 ]
Indeed , the implementation of certain policies is rooted in the assumption that discrimination and biases are , at least to some appreciable amount , present in modern society .
Even so , estimates of the prevalence of perceived discrimination remains rare ( see [ 13 – 14 ] ) .
At least one prior study by Kessler and colleagues [ 15 ] , however , using measures of perceived discrimination in a large American sample , reported that approximately 33 % of respondents reported some form of discrimination ( see also , Gibbons et al. [ 4 ] ) .
The current study seeks to build on this research by estimating the prevalence of discrimination experiences among a large , nationally representative sample of adults from the United States .
Additionally , the analysis address the perceived reasons for reported discrimination experiences .
Reason for discrimination .
All respondents who indicated they were discriminated against — specifically , those who responded with sometimes or often to the perceived discrimination measure described above — were asked the following question :
“ What do you think was the main reason for these experiences ? ”
Respondents were allowed to choose one response from 11 categories .
For the present analysis , these responses were recoded into nine mutually exclusive categories capturing the following options :
race / ancestry / skin color ;
gender ;
age ;
religion ;
height or weight ;
sexual orientation ;
education or income ;
physical disability ;
and other .
The following categories from the original questionnaire were collapsed into one category for the analysis : race ; ancestry or national origin ; and shade of skin color .
Additionally , because this question was only asked of respondents who reported prior discrimination experiences , the built-in skip pattern resulted in a large number of cases scored as missing ( legitimate skip ) .
Respondent race .
Because a race variable is not available from the Wave 4 interviews , we use the racial category reported by the respondent during the Wave 1 interview .
Wave 1 race — rather than , say , Wave 3 race — was used to preserve case counts .
The logic is that ( nearly ) all Wave 4 respondents appeared in the Wave 1 sample , but not all would have been interviewed at Wave 3 due to differential patterns of temporary attrition .
Respondents were asked to indicate their race from among the following categories : White ; Black or African American ; Hispanic ; American Indian or Native American ; and Asian or Pacific Islander .
Respondents were provided the opportunity to select more than one race , and those who did were asked a follow-up question regarding which category best described their racial background .
In the current study , those respondents who indicated more than one race were coded as “ mixed race ” .
Demographic variables .
To provide information on the analytical sample as a whole , two additional demographic variables are included .
First , age is a continuous measure created by subtracting the year of the respondents ' birth ( obtained from Wave 1 ) from the year of the interview at Wave 4 .
Second , sex was dichotomously coded based on the self-reported sex of the respondent at Wave 4 ( 0 = female and 1 = male ) .
Analytical plan .
Our exploratory study included three basic steps .
First , summary statistics of the study variables and racial categories were produced .
Second , we examined the relative proportions of the two discrimination experience measures across each racial category .
Finally , we assessed the distribution of reported reasons for discrimination across the racial categories .
In order to examine potential bivariate associations , the adjusted F statistic ( design-based F ) was employed as it corrects for a complex sample design such as that used in the Add Health . [ 21 ]
More specifically , when analyzing weighted sample data employing the svy suite of commands in Stata the conventional Pearson χ2 statistic test of independence is converted into “ an F statistic with noninteger degrees of freedom by using a second-order Rao and Scott ( 1981 [ 22 ] , 1984 [ 23 ] ) correction ” . [ 24 ]
The p-value associated with the design-based F is thus more accurate ( than the associated with the χ2 statistic ) given the adjustments and calculations take into account the weighted nature of the data .
This final step also included an examination of the relative distribution of racial categories across the various reported reasons for discrimination .
As noted earlier , all analyses were weighted according to the survey weight provided by the Add Health research staff and standard errors were corrected for the clustering and stratification that defined the sampling strategy .
Thus , all estimates reported here can be considered nationally representative of the United States .
Interview with US political activist and philosopher Noam Chomsky
Saturday , April 4 , 2009
Political activist and philosopher Noam Chomsky
Noam Chomsky is a professor emeritus at Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Linguistics and Philosophy .
At the age of 40 he was credited with revolutionizing the field of modern linguistics .
He was one of the first opponents of the Vietnam War , and is a self-described Libertarian Socialist .
At age 80 he continues to write books ; his latest book , Hegemony or Survival , was a bestseller in non-fiction .
According to the Arts and Humanities Citation Index Professor Chomsky is the eighth most cited scholar of all time .
On March 13 , Professor Chomsky sat down with Michael Dranove for an interview in his MIT office in Cambridge , Massachusetts .
On NATO
I just wanted to know if you had any thoughts on recent NATO actions and the protests coming up at the 60th NATO conference , I know you ’re speaking at the counter-conference .
Could be I give so many talks I ca n’t remember .
On the NATO conference , well I mean the obvious question is why should NATO exist ?
In fact you can ask questions about why it should ever have existed , but now why should it exist .
I mean the theory was , whether you believe it or not , that it would be a defensive alliance against potential Soviet aggression , that ’s the basic doctrine .
Well there ’s no defense against Soviet aggression , so whether you believe that doctrine or not that ’s gone .
When the Soviet Union collapsed there had been an agreement , a recent agreement , between Gorbachev and the U.S government and the first Bush administration .
The agreement was that Gorbachev agreed to a quite remarkable concession : he agreed to let a united Germany join the NATO military alliance .
Now it is remarkable in the light of history , the history of the past century , Germany alone had virtually destroyed Russia , twice , and Germany backed by a hostile military alliance , centered in the most phenomenal military power in history , that ’s a real threat .
Nevertheless he agreed , but there was a quid pro quo , namely that NATO should not expand to the east , so Russia would at least have a kind of security zone .
And George Bush and James Baker , secretary of state , agreed that NATO would not expand one inch to the east .
Gorbachev also proposed a nuclear free weapons zone in the region , but the U.S would n’t consider that .
Okay , so that was the basis on which then shortly after the Soviet Union collapsed .
Well , Clinton came into office what did he do ?
Well one of the first things he did was to back down on the promise of not expanding NATO to the east .
Well that ’s a significant threat to the Soviet Union , to Russia now that there was no longer any Soviet Union , it was a significant threat to Russia and not surprisingly they responded by beefing up their offensive capacity , not much but some .
So they rescinded their pledge not to use nuclear weapons on first strike , NATO had never rescinded it , but they had and started some remilitarization .
With Bush , the aggressive militarism of the Bush administration , as predicted , induced Russia to extend further its offensive military capacity ; it ’s still going on right now .
When Bush proposed the missile defense systems in Eastern Europe , Poland and Czechoslovakia , it was a real provocation to the Soviet Union .
I mean that was discussed in U.S arms control journals , that they would have to regard as a potential threat to their strategic deterrent , meaning as a first strike weapon .
And the claim was that it had to do with Iranian missiles , but forget about that .
Take say on Obama , Obama ’s national security advisor James Jones former Marine commandant is on record of favoring expansion of NATO to the south and the east , further expansion of NATO , and also making it an intervention force .
And the head of NATO , Hoop Scheffer , he has explained that NATO must take on responsibility for ensuring the security of pipelines and sea lanes , that is NATO must be a guarantor of energy supplies for the West .
Well that ’s kind of an unending war , so do we want NATO to exist , do we want there to be a Western military alliance that carries out these activities , with no pretense of defense ?
Well I think that ’s a pretty good question ; I do n’t see why it should , I mean there happens to be no other military alliance remotely comparable — if there happened to be one I ’d be opposed to that too .
So I think the first question is , what is this all about , why should we even be debating NATO , is there any reason why it should exist ?
Labor actions as a revival of the Left
We ’ve seen mass strikes all around the world , in countries that we would n’t expect it .
Do you think this is a revival of the Left in the West ?
Or do you think it ’s nothing ?
It ’s really hard to tell .
I mean there ’s certainly signs of it , and in the United States too , in fact we had a sit down strike in the United States not long ago , which is a very militant labor action .
Sit down strikes which began at a significant level in the 1930’s were very threatening to management and ownership , because the sit down strike is one step before workers taking over the factory and running it and kicking out the management , and probably doing a better job .
So that ’s a frightening idea , and police were called in and so on .
Well we just had one in the United States at the Republic Windows and Doors Factory , it ’s hard to know , I mean these things are just hard to predict , they may take off , and they may take on a broader scope , they may fizzle away or be diverted .
Fort Lee
Fort Lee is a city in Bergen County .
View of the George Washington Bridge 's long span and Manhattan , as seen while looking east from Fort Lee Historic Park
Understand
Fort Lee is located between the Paramus , NJ retail corridor and Upper Manhattan .
This town is comprised of a large residential community that includes Fort Lee natives , transplants from New York , and immigrants , especially from Korea .
This cultural diversity is represented through the vast variety of international restaurants and small business , and in particular , there is a strong Korean presence that can be seen in retail and dining storefronts .
Fort Lee is a small town but is piled high with apartment buildings .
Because Fort Lee is situated above the banks of the Hudson River , there are breathtaking views from almost any window facing the river .
The New York City skyline and 4th of July fireworks are spectacular over the river .
Although it is highly built up , Fort Lee also houses many playing fields and recreational parks as well as bike and running trails .
And although there is a great deal of vehicle traffic to and from the George Washington Bridge , which connects Fort Lee with Manhattan , one of the largest perks of this town is the walking access to many restaurants , convenience stores and mass transit , in the form of buses and vans that frequently run across the bridge and up and down major streets .
Get in
One of the more interesting of the many highrise residential buildings in Fort Lee
Fort Lee is bordered by Edgewater , Englewood Cliffs , Cliffside Park and Leonia .
By car
If coming from New York City , take the George Washington Bridge ;
Fort Lee is the first town on the New Jersey side of the bridge .
By bus or jitney
Ask any bus or jitney driver leaving from the Port Authority George Washington Bus Station on 177 St. whether s/he can let you off in Fort Lee .
By ferry
Fort Lee can also be accessed by boat or ferry from New York City via Edgewater and Weehawken docks .
By plane
The nearest airports to Fort Lee are Newark Airport , LaGuardia Airport , Teterboro ( general aviation only ) , JFK and Westchester County Airport .
Get around
Old and new meet in Fort Lee , as the Good Shepherd Episcopalian Church is dwarfed by a residential highrise immediately behind it
Most people choose cars , but if headed to a central area , such as Main Street , it is best to drive there , park in a municipal parking lot , and walk around from there .
Since so much of the town ’s retail area is clustered in 3 or 4 block radius , it would be beneficial to walk around , but might also be dangerous given the high traffic intersections .
If walking use caution , and if parking , make sure to feed the meter with plenty of pocket change ; the meter maids take their job very seriously .
Since fort lee is situated in such a convenient area for those commuting to and from the city , there is often high traffic and congestion on the roads .
If you are planning on being somewhere at a certain time , one might suggest leaving a good 10 to 15 minutes to escape local traffic before hitting any major roadways .
For local transportation or air-port/train station services , there are several local taxi companies that are reliable .
A-1 2470 Lemoine Avenue , tel : 1 201 944-3737 .
Babe 's 185 Bridge Plaza North , tel : 1 201 944-6800 .
G W Taxi 1696 Bergen Blvd , tel : 1 201 363-0555 .
See
Fort Lee Historic Park , a reconstruction of a Revolutionary War encampment , with beautiful views and pleasant greenery
Fort Lee is known and named for the story of how General George Washington was forced to evacuate the area in November of 1776 and begin his famous retreat through New Jersey during the winter of 1776-77 in the protection of " Fort Lee " .
The Visitors ' Center provides information on the role of Fort Lee in the War .
Audio-visual displays , detailed exhibits , gives visitors a sense of what this town was like centuries ago .
Fort Lee Historic Park , Hudson Terrace , tel : 1 201 461-1776 .
Revolutionary re-enactments , and breathtaking views of the GW Bridge , the Little Red Light House , Hudson River and majestic city skyline .
The George Washington Bridge can be crossed by bicycle or on foot as well as in a motorized vehicle .
Do
Fort Lee 's Public School 4 , a daily activity for the elementary school set
Other than eating , or shopping , or shopping for food , there is not much else to do unless you work in Fort Lee .
Fort Lee also has a great community center open to all borough residents .
The community center has dance , yoga , and other exercise classes , offers open gym hours for basketball or other recreation .
During the summer their outdoor theatre is used for performances and " movies in the park " every Friday night .
Jack Alter Fort Lee Community Center , 1355 Inwood Terrace , tel : 1 201-592-4699 , contact for membership information , and upcoming events .
Buy
There is an abundance of supermarkets , one the most famous and unique being Caffasso ’s Fairway Market .
There are also many nail salons , frozen yogurt shops , coffee shops and gas stations .
Cafasso 's Fairway Market 1214 Anderson Ave , 1 201-224-7900 .
Store hours : Mon-Fri 08:30 am - 7 pm , Sat 08:30 am - 06:30 pm , Sun 9 am - 03:00 pm
Main Street is the primary retail section of Fort Lee , and features stores such as Borders and liquor stores , and you can find a deli or drug store on every corner .
There are tons of specialty boutiques and gourmet caterers , as well as clothing and sporting good retailers .
Also on Main St. is Metropolitan Plants , a haven for flower lovers , with a very large selection of products for gardeners .
Eat
Within Fort Lee , the main attraction would be its collection of restaurants .
Fort Lee offers international cuisine and is famous for their pizzerias , delis and 24-hour diners , in addition to its Korean restaurants .
They have a warm local atmosphere and taste great .
How to Annoy People in Elevators
An elevator is almost the perfect environment to be a prankster .
It ’s easy to annoy people when you are cramped in such a small , tight space .
Because elevator rides usually last less than a minute , make sure your pranks are quick and have a lot of punch .
When annoying people on an elevator , keep your pranks lighthearted and fun as opposed to mean-spirited so that everyone leaving the elevator will have a pleasant story to tell .
Method 1 Using the Elevator to Annoy People
Push all the buttons .
When you get into the elevator , push the button for every floor .
This makes everyone ’s ride on the elevator longer , if only for a few seconds .
If you want to take it a step further , look around questioningly at everyone in the elevator when no one gets off at the floors you pushed . [ 1 ]
When someone comes in , say , " I 've got this , " before you push all of the buttons .
You can also push all the buttons as you reach the floor you are getting off at .
If someone asks you why you pushed all the buttons , you can honestly say , " It was just a joke ! "
Make a dinging noise at each floor .
Every time the elevator reaches a new floor , say “ ding ! ” very loudly .
You can even sing the word “ ding ” on each floor like notes in a scale , getting higher as you reach each new floor . [ 2 ]
You can make other noises if you prefer , such as a bird cawing or an explosion sound every time a button is pushed .
Talk to your reflection in the mirror .
Many elevators have mirrors on the walls .
A great way to be mischievous in an elevator is to carry on a running commentary while you look at yourself in the mirror .
You could look at yourself , turning to catch different angles and say “ All right , all right , now we ’re talking , ” very loudly .
You could also keep adjusting your shirt or your hair , keeping a running dialogue about what look is best for you .
Stand in the corner of the elevator facing the wall .
Do n't say anything the whole ride .
Dance to the elevator music .
Many elevators play music in the background , usually soft rock or smooth jazz .
If you ’re in an elevator that is playing music , start to dance .
Start just bobbing your head and tapping your feet , and then get your whole body into it .
Take up as much space as you can to dance until everyone is staring at you . [ 3 ]
Announce every floor .
At every floor , make a loud announcement telling everyone the floor number .
Say something like “ Everyone going to floor ten , get off now ! No time to dilly dally ! ” [ 4 ]
You can also pretend to conduct people onto the elevator , saying “ All aboard the elevator train ! ”
Exclaim that you 've lost a beast .
When the elevator is going from the bottom floor to the top , as soon as the doors close , exclaim that you lost your tarantula / snake / scorpion but confirm that it is somewhere in the elevator .
Most people will probably see that this is a joke .
However , if somebody looks seriously alarmed or is starting to panic , let them know that you were not being serious .
Build in or add something to the elevator .
For example , build a Lego city in the middle of the elevator .
Lay a Twister mat on the floor and ask people if they want to play .
Talk to people .
When there are a lot of people , say , " You 're probably wondering why I 've gathered you here today . "
Wikinews interviews Robert Sarvis , Libertarian Party nominee for Governor of Virginia
Saturday , October 19 , 2013
Attorney Robert Sarvis , the Libertarian Party 's nominee for Governor of Virginia , answered five questions submitted via e-mail by accredited Wikinews reporter William Saturn .
Sarvis has garnered double digits in opinion polls for the 2013 Virginia gubernatorial election , an unusual feat for a third party candidate .
The latest Newsmax / Zogby poll from late September placed him at 13 percent , 14 points behind Republican Party nominee Ken Cuccinelli , Virginia 's Attorney General , and 19 points behind Democratic Party nominee Terry McAuliffe , the former Democratic National Committee chairman , with 24 percent undecided .
Whoever wins election on November 5 , 2013 , would replace outgoing governor Bob McDonnell .
On his campaign website , Sarvis notes he favors parental school choice through student vouchers , simplification of Virginia 's Tax Code , US Second Amendment - gun - rights , same-sex marriage , and reform of the state 's drug laws .
With Wikinews , Sarvis discusses his background , views on McDonnell 's tenure , keys to campaign success , plan to implement his agenda , and the former Virginia governor he most admires .
Interview
What is the most important aspect of your background that voters should know about ?
I am the only candidate born and raised in Virginia , but also the only candidate who embodies both physically and philosophically the growing diversity of the commonwealth .
( I am mixed-race ( half-Chinese ) and in an interracial marriage . )
I am the only candidate who has studied both economics and law , and the only candidate with a background in technology entrepreneurship .
Because of my academic and professional background , I understand the issues and challenges facing Virginia much better than the other candidates , and I am offering real solutions that can be appreciated across the political spectrum .
I am the only candidate who believes in both economic freedom and personal liberty and the only candidate who stands on principle against cronyism and corporatism and in favor of the rule of law .
What are your thoughts on the job Bob McDonnell has done as Governor of Virginia ?
What would you have done differently than him ?
McDonnell did well early in his term pushing back against Senate Democrats who wanted huge tax increases in response to major revenue shortfalls during the recession .
Those early budget efforts are his highest achievements as Governor .
More recently , he erred in accepting a transportation bill that had huge flaws and huge tax increases , rather than prioritizing spending and seeking more rational , efficient , decentralized transportation decision-making .
He could have shown much greater leadership in pushing for tax reform , regulatory reform , and school choice .
Of course , he showed ethical lapses in judgment .
Compared to previous third party candidates at the gubernatorial level , you have done exceptionally well in opinion polling .
What do you attribute that success to ?
Voters see the two-party system for the sham it has become .
They are sick of the partisanship and nonsense and the total lack of substance in modern campaigns .
Voters see the two major party nominees as exemplifying what is worst about their respective parties , and they want something better .
Voters who meet me and hear me speak know that I am sincere , know that I understand the issues deeply and have workable solutions , and know that I stand on principle against cronyism and corporatism and in favor of the rule of law and the public interest .
People like the fact that I stand for a Virginia that is both Open-minded and Open for Business .
If elected governor , how will you be able to implement your agenda while dealing with a hostile legislature ?
There are precedents of independent governors dealing effectively with the legislature , and indeed a wise third-party governor can have greater effectiveness than a major party governor .
Libertarians share many policy positions with each of the major parties .
Working together with both Republicans and Democrats , we can get the good aspects of each party while rejecting the bad parts of both .
Moreover , electing a third-party governor represents a repudiation of politics as usual , and the major party legislators will face changed constraints and incentives , meaning that much more is possible than many people assume , especially with strong leadership .
Which previous Virginia Governor(s) do you most admire and why ?
Thomas Jefferson .
He was incredibly learned and was a strong advocate for freedom and the rule of law .
He would be a Libertarian today .
Robert Sarvis .
Image : Sarvis for Governor .
Virginia , highlighted in red .
Image : Huebi .
Over 900 asylum seekers rescued off Indonesian coast
Monday , May 18 , 2015
On Friday , fishermen rescued over 700 asylum seekers whose boat sank , and the Indonesian Navy reportedly saved 200 more after they were found swimming along the coast of Aceh , Indonesia .
Major general Fuad Basya , spokesman for the Indonesian military , said fisherman first noticed the people and a warship was deployed to retrieve them .
The rescued members included Bangladeshis and Rohingya , a stateless minority of Muslims from Myanmar .
Myanmar is mainly Buddhist and the United Nations rates the Rohingya among the world 's most persecuted groups .
According to ABC News , Basya also believes the asylum seekers found in the water may have left the boat on purpose to be rescued to avoid being sent away from Indonesia waters .
Malaysia and Indonesia have maintained a policy of turning away boats of migrants which , according to AFP , the Untied Nations and United States have both criticised .
One Rohingya , Muhammad Amin , the first boat rescued on Friday was turned around twice , toward Malaysia by Indonesian navy and then toward Indonesia by Malaysian navy .
Discussing his concern in a public statement , Malaysia 's Prime Minister , Najib Razak said , " We are in contact with all relevant parties , with whom we share the desire to find a solution to this crisis " .
Thailand has recently cracked down on human trafficking , which has affected the routes by which people-smugglers transport migrants .
The US State Department said John Kerry , the Secretary of State , contacted Thailand 's foreign minister over temporary housing for the Rohingya out at sea .
Jeff Rathke , the State Department Spokesperson , said , " We urge the governments of the region to work together quickly , first and foremost , to save the lives of migrants now at sea who are in need of an immediate rescue effort " .
Rathke also asked the governments of South East Asia not to turn away boats of people seeking asylum .
Estimates suggest 8000 migrants may be currently at sea in the region .
Wikinews interviews academic Simon Ličen about attitudes towards US Paralympics
Saturday , November 16 , 2013
A Russian stamp for Paralympic Games in Sochi in 2014
On Thursday , with 110 days until the start of the 2014 Winter Paralympics in Sochi , Russia , Wikinews interviewed Assistant Professor in Educational Leadership , Sport Studies and Educational / Counseling Psychology at Washington State University Simon Ličen about attitudes in United States towards the Paralympics .
Ličen has recently joined the Sport Management Program at Washington State University to develop its sport media and communication research and teaching contents .
Originally from Slovenia , he served as the Director of Media and Communications of a WTA Tour event and was a member of the UNESCO Slovenian National Commission .
He was also the Team Manager of the Slovenian wheelchair basketball national team .
Why do you think the Paralympic movement has so little visibility in the US compared to other countries like Australia , the United Kingdom and even Canada ?
Sports in the United States largely reaffirm existing relations of power in society .
It emphasizes consumerism , the belief that success always goes to people who merit it due to their abilities , dedication and qualifications , and reinforces , rather than changes , existing ideas related to gender , ethnicity and nationality .
Paralympic sport brings attention to athletes who are typically overlooked in American society because the majority of the population does not want to identify with people who are disabled .
Although disability is not contagious , interest in disabled sports might put into question the masculinity of the males following it .
Disabled athletes also challenge existing relations of power by displaying dedication , hard work and perseverance in different contexts than those most sports fans are accustomed to .
Other countries , including the ones you mention , have stronger social orientations in all aspects of society .
Even though legislative support may be less strong than the one provided by the Americans with Disabilities Act , many social institutions including the media are more receptive to this form of diversity .
What do you think the impact will be for the Paralympic movement will be with the Games being televised live in the United States for first time ?
The impact depends on a number of aspects .
One of them is the channels that NBC as the broadcasting rights owner for the United States will use to air the Paralympic Games on .
Will they be shown nationally or regionally , on NBC or on any of the company ’s multiple cable networks ?
A second aspect is the parts or hours of the day the Paralympics will be shown .
Remember that there is a nine-hour difference between Sochi and New York , and a 12-hour difference between Sochi and the US West Coast .
So daytime events will be shown live in the United States in the middle of the night , and evening prime-time events will be shown — indeed live — in the morning U.S. time .
So showing the Paralympics live on United States television might turn out to be less glamorous than it appears .
A third important factor is the way the event will be mediated : will NBC have its best sports broadcasters following the event after having worked the Winter Olympics ?
Will they treat and announce the competitions as they do all others — for better and worse ?
Will they take it as an opportunity to educate viewers about disability and diversity while showing superb athletic performances without engaging in a discourse of pity ?
All in all , I think this is a terrific opportunity to improve sports coverage in a multitude of aspects ; but we will have to wait until after the event to assess to what extent the broadcasters will meet these expectations .
Epistemic pollution
Agents can rationally choose between experts only if the criteria that distinguish genuine experts from charlatans are common sense or widely known :
if agents are to satisfy the epistemic conditions on responsibility , they must know what kinds of knowledge they must utilize to guide their selection of sources ( on pain of infinite regress ) .
In fact , many , if not all , the markers of expertise identified by philosophers enjoy widespread recognition .
The fact that these criteria are widely known , however , offers an opportunity to those who would use them for deception , witting or unwitting .
Since expertise must be assessed through indirect markers , to mimic the markers of expertise is to mimic expertise [ 17 ] .
We live in an epistemic environment that is heavily and deliberately polluted by agents who use mimicry and other methods as a means of inflating their pretense to expertise .
This fact , together with the fact that such deception is widely known to occur , reduces ordinary people ’s trust in expert authority and diminishes their capacity to distinguish reliable from unreliable sources .
For instance , those with an interest in deceiving the general public may set up parallel institutions that ostensibly guarantee expertise , taking advantage of the ways in which these parallel institutions mimic legitimate institutions to ensure that people are taken in .
There are some egregious examples of this practice in the field of health care .
For example , a small number of doctors set up the American College of Pediatricians ( ACPeds ) to advocate socially conservative viewpoints related to child health care .
Such an organization is surely permissible , but it has had the unfortunate ( and likely intended ) effect of muddying debates in the public forum by misleading people into thinking that the college speaks for the pediatric profession at large .
Thus , when ACPeds issued a statement condemning gender reassignment surgery in 2016 [ 21 ] , many people mistook the organization ’s political beliefs for the consensus view among United States pediatricians — although the peak body for pediatric workers , the American Academy of Pediatrics , has a much more positive view of gender dysphoria [ 22 ] .
Insofar as the larger organization , with a broader membership base , can be expected to reflect a wider range of expert opinions and a higher degree of expertise , it is reasonable to give its views greater weight than those of the smaller organization .
When ACPeds allows or encourages the impression that it speaks for the profession , it introduces an epistemic pollutant .
A yet more egregious example of such pollution involved collaborative efforts by pharmaceutical companies and the publishing giant Elsevier to produce publications mimicking peer-reviewed journals in the interest of promoting the companies ’ commercial products [ 23 ] .
The companies hoped to leverage the prestige of Elsevier with these fake journals to endow their promotional “ research ” with an air of reliability .
When the deceit was uncovered , however , the effect was just the opposite :
the legitimacy of the published findings was not enhanced through their publication by Elsevier , but rather the legitimacy of Elsevier ’s publications — and , by extension , all academic journals — was diminished through their dissemination of deceptive and commercially interested research .
More recently , institutions of academic expertise have been subject to a large and growing outbreak of so-called predatory journals — journals that will publish almost anything for a fee .
Once again , this phenomenon has the effect of making peer-reviewed journals appear less legitimate .
At times , even those who work in academia may be unsure of a particular journal ’s legitimacy , and there are genuine borderline cases .
For example , the Frontiers contingent of journals appears legitimate — at least to me — despite the fact that authors are expected to pay a publication fee . 8
Yet some Frontiers journals appear to have engaged in bad behavior , whether for profit or for some other motive .
Frontiers in Public Health controversially published articles linking vaccines and autism [ 24 ] and questioning the link between HIV and AIDS [ 25 ] .
Whether due to this behavior or not , Jeffrey Beall decided to add the publisher to his influential ( but now sadly unavailable ) list of questionable journals [ 26 ] .
The controversy surrounding Beall ’s decision indicates how difficult it is to make such judgments — even for professionals .
If academics with expertise in relevant fields have difficulty assessing whether particular journals or particular publishers are legitimate , one can not reasonably expect ordinary people to make such judgments .
If their confidence in scientific findings is lowered across the board as the result of such epistemic pollution , one can hardly blame them .
Since conflicts of interest are a reason to discount expertise , it is incumbent on me to note that I have published in Frontiers journals on several occasions .
Epistemic pollution may stem not only from counterfeit institutions of knowledge production but also from bad behavior by legitimate institutions . 9
For example , pollution may result from attempts to game the systems put in place to track expertise .
Consider institutions with a credentialing function , such as universities , bar associations , or peer review bodies .
These institutions do not exist solely to credential experts .
They have other functions , and these functions may come into conflict , creating pressures to inflate credentials .
For example , universities have a financial incentive to inflate the expertise of their academic staff , thereby increasing their rankings , bringing in grant money , and attracting students .
Systems that assess expertise can be manipulated , and many cases of such manipulation exist — take the recent example by the University of Malaysia , which attempted to boost metrics by urging its faculty to cite one another [ 28 ] .
For this reason , institutions may also be slow to investigate accusations of fraud , and they may try to keep their discoveries in-house to protect their reputations .
How to Cope With a Double Parachute Failure
While skydiving , it is possible ( yet extremely unlikely ) that both your primary and reserve parachutes will malfunction , leaving you with no method of reducing your velocity .
In the vast majority of cases , this will not occur ;
nevertheless , in this event these coping strategies may assist .
Steps
Remain calm .
This may seem obvious , but deep , even breathing ( despite the rushing slipstream ) and controlling your heart-rate are essential to your continued survival .
Entreat assistance .
If both your primary and reserve chutes have malfunctioned , signal immediately to a fellow jumper who has not yet deployed their chute , waving your arms and signalling that your own is not functional .
If this is a solo jump , then skip to step 6 .
Prepare for deployment .
After linking arms with your fellow jumper , you will need to hook your arms through their chest strap , or through both sides of the front of their harness , as far as you can , then grab onto your own strap .
Deploy .
The shock of the chute deployment will be intense .
The G-forces will multiply your body weight , making it impossible to hold on ;
this is why hooking your arms through the harness is essential .
It is likely that the shock will dislocate or break both your arms ;
nevertheless this is a small price to pay for your life .
Prepare for impact .
If your companion 's canopy has successfully opened , then both your chances of survival have dramatically increased .
With a large and slow canopy , your chances are even better .
The canopy must be steered away from power lines and similar obstructions ;
try for a large body of water if you are confident your companion can save you from drowning .
Alternative : Lack of companions
If this is a solo jump , which constitutes the minority of skydivers , your only recourse is to ensure that at least one of your own chutes opens .
In this case , the excellent advice offered by your instructors on assisting chute opening may be of assistance to you .
If it becomes apparent that you cannot open either of your two parachutes , or that for some other reason they are fatally non-functional , then the following steps may be of some minor assistance .
Appeal .
If you are of a religious turn of mind , you may wish at this point to offer a prayer to a god , goddess , protective spirit or guardian angel .
St Jude , the patron saint of Lost Causes , comes to mind .
Objectively , this is not likely to help very much ; but it may improve your emotional state .
If you do not have any religious beliefs , or are for another reason unwilling to appeal to your patron deity , skip this step .
Contemplate .
As you approach the Earth at , or close to , terminal velocity , you may wish to contemplate your past existence , and the possibility of a future afterlife .
A strategy that might prove helpful is to consider how fortunate you are that life has been good to you so far .
Alternatively , if life has not been good to you so far , ( and considering your current situation this seems more likely ) consider how lucky you are that it will not be troubling you much longer .
Expect impact .
You are unlikely to have the time or ability to aim for a soft landing-spot , body of water , or other impact site that might improve your chances of survival .
There is a minuscule chance that your impact will result in non-life-threatening injuries ;
if this seems incredibly far-fetched , comfort yourself that double chute failure in modern times is also extremely unlikely , and that you have already beaten worse odds .
Tips
Your reserve chute should have been packed by a certified rigger and is moderately less likely to fail ;
therefore , it may be helpful to focus your efforts on opening your reserve parachute .
Some humans who have , for various reasons , become aware of their impending death , develop psychological coping strategies to deal with this ;
for instance , the Kubler-Ross phases of grief .
Since your own death approaches far more quickly , this is unlikely to be of any use to you .
Warnings
Water landings : if you have successfully attached to a companion whose chute opens , keep in mind that both your arms may be broken or dislocated , and you may be unable to swim or tread water before your chute fills and drags you under .
If , after total chute failure , you land on something soft , it is possible that instead of being killed outright , you may be permanently paralyzed due to spinal injury .
If you have a strong aversion to this outcome , aiming head-downward before impact in the manner of an Olympic diver may ensure the destruction of your cranium and your immediate demise .
Microsoft waits for death of Internet Explorer 6
Tuesday , March 8 , 2011
With development of Microsoft 's Internet Explorer 9 ( IE9 ) browser almost complete , Microsoft announced on Friday that it is time for IE6 users to move away from the antiquated 10-year-old browser .
Microsoft has replaced it with three newer versions .
On a new website , " The Internet Explorer 6 Countdown " , Microsoft has launched an aggressive campaign to persuade users to stop using IE6 and update to a newer IE .
Its goal is to decrease IE6 users to less than one percent .
" [ Ten ] years ago , a browser was born .
Its name was Internet Explorer 6 .
Now that we ’re in 2011 , in an era of modern web standards , it ’s time to say goodbye , " Microsoft says on " The Internet Explorer 6 Countdown " .
Internet Explorer 's market share is slipping .
IE 's various versions accounted for 70 percent of the market in 2009 ; this has dropped to approximately 56 percent today .
Mozilla Firefox , its main rival , has been actively increasing its market share while the recently released Google Chrome is also quickly gaining users .
PC World 's recent analysis of its own web traffic statistics concluded , " Usually , Internet Explorer is the # 2 browser after Firefox , but over the past 30 days it s been # 3 , a couple of points behind Safari - and nearly tied with Chrome .
It might be a statistical blip .
But if it is n't , and Chrome continues to surge , IE could fall to fourth place . "
Web developers face big problems with IE6 .
As they design their web pages for the newer browsers with advanced web technology and geared to the newest web core markup language HTML 5 , they are forced to accommodate older out-of-date technology to support IE6 users .
Also , not mentioned on Microsoft 's " The Internet Explorer 6 Countdown " site , are the numerous security vulnerabilities putting the browser at risk of being hacked .
The Internet security firm Secunia.com , has said that as of March 4 , 2011 , IE6 has 277 vulnerabilities ; 39 percent of these are rated " highly critical " .
Microsoft says that the latest versions of Internet Explorer provide the user with enhanced protection from these attacks and threats .
Microsoft 's Internet Explorer 6 is one of the most successful software products ever as measured by its durability and the massive numbers of people who have used it .
IE6 shipped with Windows XP , nearly a decade ago .
But it has outlived its usefulness , and Microsoft no longer wants to support it .
Parents prosecuted after homeopathic treatment leads to daughter 's death
Friday , May 8 , 2009
Thomas Sam , 42 , and his wife Manju Sam , 36 , from Sydney , Australia , are undergoing trial for manslaughter by gross negligence for the death of their nine-month-old child , Gloria .
She died from infection caused by severe eczema after they shunned effective conventional medical treatments for homeopathy , a form of alternative medicine that has been described as pseudoscience .
Articles in peer-reviewed academic journals including Social Science & Medicine have characterized homeopathy as a form of quackery .
An example of severe eczema .
Image : Jambula .
Gloria developed severe eczema at the age of four months and the parents were advised to send the child to a skin specialist .
Thomas Sam , a practising homeopath , instead decided to treat his daughter himself .
His daughter 's condition deteriorated , to the point that the baby spent all her energy battling the infections caused by the constant breaking of the skin , leading to severe malnutrition and , eventually , her death .
By the end , Gloria 's eczema was so severe that her skin broke every time her parents changed her clothes or nappy , and in the words of the Crown prosecutor , Mark Tedeschi , QC , " Gloria spent a lot of the last five months of her life crying , irritable , scratching and the only thing that gave her solace was to suck on her mother 's breast . "
Gloria also became unable to move her legs .
Mr. Tedeschi also told the court that , over the last five months of her life , " Gloria 's eczema played a devastating role in her overall health and it is asserted by the Crown that both her parents knew this and discussed it with each other . "
However , despite their child 's severe illness , and her lack of improvement , the Sams continued to shun conventional medical treatment , instead seeking help from other homeopaths and naturopaths .
Gloria temporarily improved during the rare times they used conventional treatments , but they soon dropped them in favour of homeopathy , and she consistently worsened .
Allegedly , Thomas ' sister pleaded with him to send Gloria to a conventional medical doctor , but he replied " I am not able to do that " .
The parents are also accused of putting their social life ahead of their child , taking her on a trip to India and leaving her to servants while embarking on a busy social schedule , and giving her homeopathic drops instead of using the prescription creams they had been given .
Gloria was finally taken to the emergency department shortly before her death .
By this time , " her skin was weeping , her body malnourished and her corneas melting " , according to the Sydney Morning Herald .
Speaking in the parents ' defense , Tom Molomby , SC , said that , as the parents came from India , where homeopathy is in common use , they should be declared not guilty due to cultural differences .
Homeopathy is a form of alternative medicine which treats patients with massively diluted forms of substances that , if given to a healthy person undiluted , would cause symptoms similar to the disease .
Typical treatments take the dilutions , with ritualised shaking between each step of the dilution , past the level where any molecules of the original substance are likely to remain ; for homeopathic treatments to work , basic well-understood concepts in chemistry and physics would have to be wrong .
There is no evidence that homeopathy is more effective than placebo for any condition .
Scientology defector arrested after attempting to leave organization
Saturday , October 9 , 2010
Recent reports have revealed that a defector from the elite group within Scientology called the Sea Org was first persuaded to travel back to a management building for the organization in California , where he was interrogated by an attorney for Scientology and then arrested .
Daniel Montalvo in September 2010 , after having left the elite group within Scientology called the Sea Org .
Montalvo is holding a copy of the book Blown for Good critical of Scientology , written by Marc Headley .
Image : Mark Rathbun .
Daniel Montalvo , 19 , a member of Scientology all his life , was arrested after leaving its elite group the Sea Org .
He was released on US$ 20,000 bail on Thursday .
Montalvo was charged with taking hard drives and a zip drive from the Scientology organization after leaving the Sea Org group .
The Sea Org requires members to sign a billion-year-contract , agreeing to work for the organization founded by science fiction writer L. Ron Hubbard for multiple lifetimes .
Members of the Sea Org live a strict lifestyle – with little income , small diet provided and significant time invested in work per day .
Montalvo had read an article in the Scientology propaganda publication Freedom Magazine , which attacked high-ranking defectors from the organization including Tom Devocht and Mark Rathbun .
Montalvo had known Devocht personally , and came to the conclusion that the claims made about him in the Freedom article were lies .
Montalvo was subsequently motivated to seek out information about Scientology on the Internet , and came upon a blog written by Rathbun .
Montalvo contacted former members of Scientology , who helped him leave the organization and get in touch with Devocht .
He traveled to Florida to meet with Devocht , who had told Montalvo he would assist him with future employment and housing .
According to Rathbun the Scientology property in question was returned by mail to the organization by Montalvo shortly after he left the Sea Org .
Scientology officials have stated they have not received the materials .
After calling the Scientology organization by phone to attempt to speak with his mother , Montalvo was instead put through to a Scientology attorney , Kendrick Moxon .
Rathbun wrote , " Moxon proceeded to lie to Daniel that the hard drives were never returned , and made a convincing case ( not difficult to do with a 19 year old who does not even know the three branches of government ) that Daniel would be put behind iron bars for a good long time , UNLESS of course , he returned and cooperated with Moxon and routed out properly . "
To " route out " in Scientology jargon refers to the member who wishes to leave proceeding through a set of interrogative exit interviews while attached to the Scientology device called the E-meter .
According to Rathbun , a detective for the Los Angeles Sheriff 's office was provided with material from Scientology to build a case against Montalvo .
Rathbun stated ,
" Daniel was picked up by an investigator in a black car with blacked out windows .
Instead of being taken to a hotel , where he could route out as promised , he was taken to the Century City Towers .
He was deposited in an office on the 33rd floor where a pricy church lawyer interrogated him for two hours . "
Rathbun asserted that Scientology officials , " ... plied the Sheriff 's detective with a grand conspiracy theory , characterizing me as the ' anti-christ ' of the church of Scientology . ... The next thing Daniel knows he 's in a cell where he sat for the next 30 hours . "
Steve Whitmore , a representative for the LA Sheriff 's office , told LA Weekly in a statement that the case involving Montalvo was being dealt with as charges relating to grand theft .
Whitmore stated Montalvo left Scientology-related employment in Los Angeles on September 24 .
On September 29 , Scientology officials went to the East Los Angeles sheriff 's station where they claimed Montalvo allegedly left the organization with computer hard drives .
Whitmore told LA Weekly that on October 6 after traveling back from Florida , Montalvo " walked into lobby of the East L.A. station and turned himself in " , and told the police , " everything he did " .
Whitmore stated to LA Weekly that the alleged crime involved five hard drives each of $ 200 in value .
Montalvo has been assisted by former members of Scientology , including musician Tiziano Lugli and actor Jason Beghe .
Rathbun requested donations via a statement made on his blog , in order to help Montalvo with his legal defense financing .
He described Montalvo as an individual , " facing the penitentiary in thanks for the following sins : a) Leaving a lifehood of slavery to get a taste of freedom and the world . b) Refusing - despite every provocation and incentive and threat - to frame three guys who went out of their ways ( and dipped into their pockets ) to help the kid achieve that freedom . "
Cleveland is a culturally diverse city on the shores of Lake Erie , one of the Great Lakes , in Cuyahoga County , Ohio , USA .
Recreational , cultural and educational opportunities are abundant throughout Northeast Ohio .
You ll find world-class museums and cultural events , professional sports and amusement parks , and the most golf courses per capita in the United States .
Places Rated Almanac ranks the area second in recreational options out of 354 US metro areas .
Plus , this region ranks fifth in the nation in number of major cultural resources per one million residents .
Understand
Cleveland from lakefront .
Cleveland is the urban center of Northeast Ohio , the 15th largest combined metropolitan area in the United States .
Throughout the twentieth century , the City of Cleveland proper was ranked as one of the 10 largest cities in the U.S. ( from 1890 until 1970 per US Census Bureau statistics ) .
Like most U.S. cities , Cleveland proper began to lose population to suburban areas in the 1960s and 1970s .
However , in the mid-1980s , Cleveland earned the nickname the " Comeback City " as the urban core experienced a dramatic revitalization process that continues today .
As its " comeback " has continued , the official moniker is now the New American City as Cleveland has rightfully earned the reputation as a model of effective public-private partnership for urban planning .
Despite the common perception that Cleveland is an industrial town , just beyond the automotive and steel plants , a clean and beautiful downtown rises at the mouth of the Cuyahoga River on the southern shore of Lake Erie ( often marvelled over by visitors who are surprised you ca n't see the other side , i.e. , Canada ) .
Like other cities in the so-called " rust belt “ , Cleveland has endured growing pains as it makes its transition from a manufacturing-based economy .
While Cleveland continues to play a leading role in building the U.S. industrial base , it has also developed economic prowess in the fields of health care , law , finance , insurance , real estate development , and professional services .
Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum
Another thing non-locals do n't often realize is that Cleveland 's long history of industrial wealth has left it chock full of cultural riches as well as the beginnings of a " sustainable city " movement .
Serving as a global model for urban rebirth , Cleveland has been named one of the top 10 international visitor hotspots by Travel and Leisure magazine .
For decades , the city has boasted of : a " Big Five " orchestra ( The Cleveland Orchestra ) , the second largest performing arts center in the U.S. ( Playhouse Square Center ) , a world-renowned art museum ( The Cleveland Museum of Art ) , the nation 's first health museum ( HealthSpace Cleveland ) , R&D hub of the aerospace and aviation industry ( the NASA Glenn Research & Visitors Center ) and a number of other first-rate attractions ( too many to mention here - read on ) .
During its " comeback " years , Cleveland has added : the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum , the Great Lakes Science Center with Omnimax theatre , and four new sports facilities in the downtown area - Progressive Field ( Still known as " The Jake " after a recent corporate name change ) for the Major League Baseball Indians , QuickenLoans Arena ( " The Q " ) for the NBA Cavaliers , Cleveland Browns Stadium for the NFL Browns and the Wolstein Center for the Cleveland State University Vikings basketball team .
The Use of Cognitive Digital Games in School :
Contributions to Attention
Daniela Karine Ramos dadaniela@gmail.com Universidade Federal de Santa Catarin
Bruna Anastacio brunaanastacio@hotmail.com Universidade Federal de Santa Catarin
Cognitive games involve a number of different games working aspects of human cognition , while proposing the intersection between the sets of concepts , fun and cognition , for the improvement of cognitive functions .
The attention is the main point made in this study , since it is fundamental to the learning process and be recurring complaint among parents and teachers in schools .
With respect to the contributions of digital games to improvement of cognitive processes , researchers suggest that regular practice has a significant influence on improving the performance related to basic visual skills ( Li , Polat , Scalzo , & Bavelier , 2010 ) ; on the ability to perceive objects simultaneously ( Dye & Bavelier , 2010 ; Feng , Spence , & Pratt , 2007 ) ; and on the ability to do more than one task at the same time ( Boot , Kramer , Simons , Fabiani , & Gratton , 2008 ) .
Other studies specifically investigate the use of digital games in the school context and suggest potential for digital game use to improve of student 's attention span at preschool age ( Rueda , Checa , & Cómbita , 2012 ) , to improve overall intelligence capacity of elementary school children ( Miller & Robertson , 2010 ) , and to better performance of working memory ability ( Klingberg et al. , 2005 ; Thorell , Lindqvist , Nutley , Bohlin , & Klingberg , 2009 ) .
Considering the importance of the proper functioning of attention , because of its involvement in the regulation of thoughts and emotions , maintaining the performance of this process is very important , especially in school , where the child must acquire content in an environment full of countless distractors .
The study in question focuses on the attention , proposing and evaluation in the context of the classroom .
Thus , it suggests the use of digital games in an integrated way the school activities in the classroom .
The games have features like increasing challenges , rules that establish what can and can not be done , and involvement of the player in the quest to gain skills and win the game ( Kirriemuir & McFarlane , 2004 ; Prensky , 2005 ) .
We aim to investigate the contributions of the use of a system that integrates cognitive digital games to a database , of the Escola do Cérebro , for monitoring and improvement of cognitive skills , highlighting the attention .
The games involve challenges and rules involving the exercise of cognitive functions , especially the working memory , attention and capacity of solving problems .
The study combines qualitative and quantitative approaches .
It collects the data based on the observation of the proposed interventions as well as interviews conducted with participating teachers and students to identify their perceptions of digital games ’ contributions to the learning process .
Furthermore , before and after the implementation of the intervention , we performed a D2 Test of attention that measures selective and sustained attention , as well as visual scanning accuracy and speed .
The intervention consisted in the use of the Escola do Cérebro , using tablets in the classroom , daily for a period of five weeks .
The sample consisted of 71 students of the Application School of Basic Education , Federal University of Santa Catarina , aged 7 and 9 years old ( M = 7.64 ± 1.12 ) , which were divided into two groups : participant and control .
The first ( n = 31 ) participated in the intervention , the control group ( n = 40 ) was only evaluated using the test before and after the same time interval of interventions .
The Escola do Cérebro is a platform that integrates seven digital games into a database .
The application allows visualization of the player 's performance and offers the possibility of monitoring by teachers .
Students have their scores measured by four variables : time , speed , stability and accuracy .
A statistical analysis was performed based on the application of the paired t-test on the difference of the overall score obtained in the test before and after the intervention in the two groups .
The difference in the results obtained from the application of D2 Test of attention before and after was statistically significant ( p < 0.05 ) ,
the participant group had mean and standard deviation 60.23 ( 64.75 ) respectively , while the control group was 20.00 ( 42.65 ) .
The result indicates significant improvement in the performance of the sustained attention in the test , as well as a high dispersion , which reveals a variation in relation to the performance .
In addition , students participating in the interview reported a preference for games that involve problem solving , recognize the need to plan actions in relation to their importance for the game and for daily activities , and realize improvements in the ability to sustain attention .
The teachers observed changes after the intervention , emphasizing the greater persistence and involvement in school activities , and in some students , improvement in the ability to sustain attention .
From this , we conclude that an intervention based on cognitive digital games offers contributions to the learning process and improvement of sustained attention .
Guadeloupe
Guadeloupe , known as Gwadloup in the local creole , and sometimes known as the Butterfly Island ( French : I'ile Papillon ) on account of the shape of two of its major islands , is a group of islands in the eastern Caribbean , and is a French overseas department .
It is located southeast of Puerto Rico .
Islands
Basse Terre : green and lush vegetation , mountainous with a sulphuric volcano .
Grande Terre : flat and dry with a lot of beaches , some of them very touristic .
Marie Galante : the biggest island out of mainland Guadeloupe .
Les Saintes : composed of Terre de Haut and Terre de Bas , one of the most beautiful bays .
La Désirade : dry and cliffy .
Petite Terre : uninhabited and untamed .
Cities
Grande Terre
Map of Guadeloupe
Pointe-à-Pitre : with its suburbs , it is the economic capital of Guadeloupe
Gosier : maybe one of the most interesting places of Guadeloupe to enjoy nightlife .
( You can enter most nightclubs with proper clothes , that is , no sneakers , no shorts )
St François if you go at the eastern point of Guadeloupe , you will reach La Pointe des Chateaux , a scenery made of sand and rocks which have vaguely the shape of a castle .
From there , you can look up at the islands La Désirade , Petite Terre , Marie Galante , Les Saintes , La Dominique but also have a perfect view of the islands Grande Terre and far away Basse Terre .
St Anne a very nice but also very touristy city and beach ( maybe the tourists primary area of Guadeloupe ) .
L'Americano , bd Georges Mandel , 0590883899 : bar / restaurant offers free salsa courses on Saturdays and live performances some days .
You will find all kind of bars .
You can try Club Med , 0590854950 fax : 0590854959 ( for instance , others resort may propose this formula too ) for a one day all inclusive ( breakfast , buffet , bars , drinks , beach volley , windsurf , boat , gym , dance courses ... ) for about € 46 , so it may be a good deal ( as it costs € 7 one hour of windsurf ) .
Morne à l'eau , renowned for its amazing cemetery composed of burial places made of black and white tiles .
Anse Bertrand , not far from there , you can visit La pointe de la Grande Vigie , northern point of mainland Guadeloupe .
You can also go to Porte d'Enfer , a beautiful still stripe of sea between a scenery of reefs .
From there , walk one hour along the cliff , and you will discover a Souffleur , kind of geyser due to the pressure of the sea .
Abymes nothing special to see , but the weekend , there are 3 local nightclubs : L'instant , Caraibes and Latin Club .
They are located at the same place .
Baie-Mahault : the industrial and commercial zone of Guadeloupe , nothing special to do or see .
Here stands the biggest shopping mall of the island .
Not too far from there , you can find a local bar / nightclub named Bik Kreyol , Beau Soleil , 0590258046 or 0590920648 ( Entrance € 5 , Drinks € 3 ) .
Local music ( ragga , zouk , rnb ) and local customers .
The building is typical , it 's a former warehouse .
Other destinations
Do n't miss the spectacular waterfalls in the jungle of Basse-Terre ( Carbet Falls ) .
Some are within 5 – 10 minutes walking distance from the nearest parking lot , some require at least 3 – 4 hours of hiking ( those are , of course less frequented by other tourists and you might find yourself alone at a spectacular waterfall in the middle of nowhere - an amazing experience ! ) .
The local rum distilleries offer tours ( check for opening times as they may very from season to season ) which are certainly worth the while since rum production is a very integral part of Guadeloupe 's economy .
And sampling the local rums is definitely worth the while .
Even though they might not be the best way to get around the island , a ride on the bus is still an experience you should not miss .
Cheap , full of locals , conducted by fearless drivers , you can enjoy the beautiful Caribbean panorama to the sound of Guadeloupean zouk music .
Some routes are not good for passengers with weak stomachs .
Interview with LibriVox founder Hugh McGuire
Sunday , May 28 , 2006
The LibriVox website features a catalog of about a hundred completed books , including books in other languages like German , Hebrew , and Japanese .
Why did you decide to take the acoustic fate of public domain works into your own hands , and how did you go about it ?
I think that a vibrant public domain is very important to a healthy world , and so I thought : here 's a way to help the cause .
I launched LibriVox , emailed some friends and some podcasters who where doing literary stuff , and invited them to record a chapter of Joseph Conrad 's Secret Agent .
Things have grown steadily since .
By the way , AKMA was the first guy I know of to do something like this , with Lawrence Lessig 's Free Culture .
That , I think , started my thinking about this , but it took a while for the idea to crystallize .
Hugh McGuire with some books that have not yet been acoustically liberated .
Do you personally record audiobooks , and did you already do so before LibriVox ?
LibriVox was my first experience recording audiobooks .
I still do the odd chapter , but i am a bit delinquent in finishing some of them these days !
Is there a particular LibriVox book which you think stands out because of the quality , the overall effort involved , its popularity , or for some other reason ?
My personal favourite is Notes from the Underground ( Dostoyevsky ) .
Other random good ones :
Austen , Jane .
Pride and Prejudice
Christie , Agatha .
The Mysterious Affair at Styles
London , Jack .
White Fang
Macaulay , Thomas Babington .
History of England ( Volume 1 , Chapter 1 )
Marx , Karl and Engels , Friedrich .
The Communist Manifesto ( solo )
Twain , Mark .
A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur 's Court ( solo )
Ed. : See the LibriVox catalog for a full index .
Browsing the catalog , I find that the quality of the spoken audio varies greatly from text to text or even from chapter to chapter .
If someone wanted to re-record a chapter because they did n't like the speaker , would you then offer two versions ?
Yes .
We take the Wikipedia approach : if you think it should be better , please help it be so .
You 'll note we offer a couple of versions of some books .
Indeed our weekly poetry project celebrates this diversity of voice : each week a new short poem is chosen and as many readers as wish to record a version , so you get 20 + versions of the same poem , a very interesting audio experience .
Besides works whose copyright has expired , there is an increasing number of modern books available under Creative Commons and similar licenses .
You mentioned Larry Lessig 's Free Culture , but it also includes some out of print titles by publishers who are open to the concept , such as O'Reilly .
Do you want to limit the scope of LibriVox strictly to old public domain works , or do you have plans to include recent works under reasonably permissive licenses as well ?
We are only doing public domain works , for a number of reasons , partly to keep simplicity in our copyright situation -- public domain means it s as simple as can be .
CC makes things more complex .
Also , there are other sites , notably podiobooks.com , which are better suited to CC works than LibriVox .
we find it makes things clear and easy to say : published works , public domain , and leave it at that .
As far as I can tell , podiobooks.com features " free as in beer " content — material which you can download , but which is n't under a free content license .
Instead of " public domain " , would n't " free content " work just as well , using something like the Free Content Definition to limit the scope ?
This needs more discussion obviously : we chose public domain because the texts we use are public domain and we did n't want to add new restrictions , especially not non-commercial , since already our recordings are being used for a number of commercialish projects ( I ca n't recall any specific project names , but some pay-education sites use LV stuff ) .
That 's good and well and fine with us .
We do n't want to have to give anyone permission to use our recordings , we want anyone to use them for whatever they want .
Also , for the thing to work you need to have many dedicated volunteers willing to do the management ( onerous ) and many willing to do the reading .
While Pride and Prejudice will attract many readers , I do n't know about O'Reilly 's latest tome on XML ... though I might be wrong .
Pierre Charles L'Enfant ,
Pierre Charles L'Enfant ( French : [ pjɛʁ ʃɑʁl lɑ̃fɑ̃ ] ; August 2 , 1754 – June 14 , 1825 ) , self-identified as Peter Charles L'Enfant while living in the United States , was a French-born American military engineer who designed the basic plan for Washington , D.C. ( capital city of the U.S. ) known today as the L'Enfant Plan ( 1791 ) .
Early life and education
L'Enfant was born in Paris , France on August 2 , 1754 , the third child and second son of Pierre L'Enfant ( 1704 – 1787 ) , a painter with a good reputation in the service of King Louis XV of France , ( 1710 - 1774 , reigned 1715 - 1774 ) , and Marie L'Enfant , the daughter of a minor official at court .
In 1758 , his brother Pierre Joseph died at the age of six , and Pierre Charles became the eldest son .
He studied art at the Royal Academy in the Louvre , as well as with his father at the Royal Academy of Painting and Sculpture .
He left school in France to enlist in the American Revolutionary War on the side of the rebelling colonials .
Military service
